Abate thy valour in the acting it.
abhorred in my imagination it is! my gorge rims at
About her lank and all o'er-teemed loins,
about my heart: but it is no matter.
About the world have times twelve thirties been,
about to say? By the mass, I was about to say
Above the clouds, as high as heaven itself?
Absent thee from felicity awhile,
Abuses me to damn me: I'll have grounds
According to the phrase or the addition
Acquaint her here of my son Paris' love;
Acts little of his will. Tell me, Laertes,
Addicted so and so:' and there put on him
Adding to clouds more clouds with his deep sighs;
Adieu, adieu! Hamlet, remember me.
admiration? Impart.
admit no discourse to your beauty.
Admit no messengers, receive no tokens.
Adversity's sweet milk, philosophy,
Affection makes him false; he speaks not true:
Affliction is enamour'd of thy parts,
Affront Ophelia:
Afore me! it is so very very late,
after his desert, and who should 'scape whipping?
After the Danish sword, and thy free awe
After the prompter, for our entrance:
After the thing it loves.
afterwards, if they should grow themselves to common
against six French swords, their assigns, and three
against the Danish. Why is this 'imponed,' as you call it?
Against the which, a moiety competent
Against thy mother aught: leave her to heaven
Against to-morrow: my heart is wondrous light,
Against yourself: I know you are no truant.
Ah ha, my mistresses! which of you all
Ah, Juliet, if the measure of thy joy
Ah me! how sweet is love itself possess'd,
Ah, my good lord, what have I seen to-night!
Ah, poor my lord, what tongue shall smooth thy name,
Ah, sirrah, by my fay, it waxes late:
Ah, sirrah, this unlook'd-for sport comes well.
Ah, that same pale hard-hearted wench, that Rosaline.
ah, the immortal passado! the punto reverso! the
Ah, where's my man? give me some aqua vitae:
Ah, word ill urged to one that is so ill!
Alack, alack, is it not like that I,
Alack, alack, that heaven should practise stratagems
Alack, alack, what blood is this, which stains
Alack, and fie for shame!
Alack the day! he's gone, he's kill'd, he's dead!
Alack, there lies more peril in thine eye
Alas, alas! Help, help! my lady's dead!
Alas, how shall this bloody deed be answer'd?
Alas, my liege, my wife is dead to-night;
Alas poor Romeo! he is already dead; stabbed with a
Alas, poor Yorick! I knew him, Horatio: a fellow
Alas, that love, so gentle in his view,
Alas, that love, whose view is muffled still,
Alexander returneth into dust; the dust is earth; of
Alike betwitched by the charm of looks,
Alive, in triumph! and Mercutio slain!
Alla stoccata carries it away.
all; believe none of us. Go thy ways to a nunnery.
All flaxen was his poll:
All forsworn, all naught, all dissemblers.
All from her father's death. O Gertrude, Gertrude,
All given to mine ear.
All in gore-blood; I swounded at the sight.
All in the morning betime,
All may be well.
all men's; and for a hand, and a foot, and a body,
All my smooth body.
All night for lesser cause, and ne'er been sick.
All saws of books, all forms, all pressures past,
All slain, all dead. 'Romeo is banished!'
All things that we ordained festival,
All this I know; and to the marriage
All this is comfort; wherefore weep I then?
Almost to jelly with the act of fear,
Alone, in company, still my care hath been
altitude of a chopine. Pray God, your voice, like
Amen!
Amen, amen! but come what sorrow can,
Am I like such a fellow?
Am I the master here, or you? go to.
Among a mineral of metals base,
Among a sisterhood of holy nuns:
Among fresh female buds shall you this night
am peppered, I warrant, for this world. A plague o'
An alligator stuff'd, and other skins
An anchor's cheer in prison be my scope!
an ape, in the corner of his jaw; first mouthed, to
Ancient damnation! O most wicked fiend!
And after we will both our judgments join
And a good lady, and a wise and virtuous
And all combined, save what thou must combine
And all my fortunes at thy foot I'll lay
And all the better is it for the maid:
And all things change them to the contrary.
And all things shall be well, I warrant thee, wife:
And all this day an unaccustom'd spirit
And all those twenty could but kill one life.
And all we mourn for.
And a man's life's no more than to say 'One.'
And am most sensible in grief for it,
And a most instant tetter bark'd about,
And an old hare hoar,
And apprehend thee for a felon here.
And art thou changed? pronounce this sentence then,
And, as he drains his draughts of Rhenish down,
And, as he fell, did Romeo turn and fly.
And, as I think, they have already order
and as I told you, my young lady bade me inquire you
And as my love is sized, my fear is so:
And, as the sleeping soldiers in the alarm,
And, as the world were now but to begin,
And, as you said, and wisely was it said,
And at our more consider'd time well read,
And at the sound it shrunk in haste away,
And bad'st me bury love.
And bakes the elflocks in foul sluttish hairs,
And batten on this moor? Ha! have you eyes?
And bear it to the chapel.
And bear this work of heaven with patience:
And beg your pardon: pardon, I beseech you!
And, being anger'd, puffs away from thence,
And being thus frighted swears a prayer or two
And be not from his reason fall'n thereon,
And bid her hasten all the house to bed,
And bid her, mark you me, on Wednesday next--
And bid him come to take his last farewell.
And bid me hold my peace. I pray you all,
And bid me stand aloof, and so I did:
And blow them at the moon: O, 'tis most sweet,
And borrowing dulls the edge of husbandry.
And botch the words up fit to their own thoughts;
And both neglect. What if this cursed hand
And bowl the round nave down the hill of heaven,
And bow them to your gracious leave and pardon.
and boy, thirty years.
And break your own neck down.
And breathed such life with kisses in my lips,
And breath of life, I have no life to breathe
And bring in cloudy night immediately.
And bring thee cords made like a tackled stair;
And bring these gentlemen where Hamlet is.
And but one word with one of us? couple it with
And, but that great command o'ersways the order,
And but thou love me, let them find me here:
And by and by my master drew on him;
And by opposing end them? To die: to sleep;
And call it accident.
And call the noblest to the audience.
And can say nothing; no, not for a king,
And carriage of the article design'd,
and ceremony: let me comply with you in this garb,
And cleave the general ear with horrid speech,
And convoy is assistant, do not sleep,
And could of men distinguish, her election
And crook the pregnant hinges of the knee
And cruel death hath catch'd it from my sight!
And curd, like eager droppings into milk,
And death, not Romeo, take my maidenhead!
And death's pale flag is not advanced there.
and declines his head upon her neck: lays him down
And doleful dumps the mind oppress,
And do not interrupt me in my course.
And do not spread the compost on the weeds,
And do such bitter business as the day
And doth it give me such a sight as this?
And do't the speedier, that you may direct me
And draw you into madness? think of it:
And drink it off; and, if you had the strength
And drive his purpose on to these delights.
and drown him, he drowns not himself: argal, he
and drown himself, it is, will he, nill he, he
And duller shouldst thou be than the fat weed
And each particular hair to stand on end,
And end his being: that done, he lets me go:
And, England, if my love thou hold'st at aught--
And enterprises of great pith and moment
And ere this hand, by thee to Romeo seal'd,
And even the like precurse of fierce events,
And ever three parts coward, I do not know
And fall a-cursing, like a very drab,
And fall upon the ground, as I do now,
And fearfully did menace me with death,
And fear'st to die? famine is in thy cheeks,
And find delight writ there with beauty's pen;
And finding him, the searchers of the town,
And fire-eyed fury be my conduct now!
And flecked darkness like a drunkard reels
And flights of angels sing thee to thy rest!
And flourishes his blade in spite of me.
And follow thee my lord throughout the world.
And foreign mart for implements of war;
And for his death no wind of blame shall breathe,
And for my means, I'll husband them so well,
And for my soul, what can it do to that,
And for that name which is no part of thee
And for that offence
And, for that purpose, I'll anoint my sword.
And for the day confined to fast in fires,
And for your part, Ophelia, I do wish
And for your rapier most especially,
And from her fair and unpolluted flesh
And from her womb children of divers kind
And from his mother's closet hath he dragg'd him:
And from his mouth whose voice will draw on more;
And gather by him, as he is behaved,
And gave him what becomed love I might,
And gave you such a masterly report
And gem of all the nation.
and 'gentleman.'
And 'gins to pale his uneffectual fire:
And gladly shunn'd who gladly fled from me.
And go, Sir Paris; every one prepare
And hath abatements and delays as many
And hath shipped me intil the land,
And hears it roar beneath.
And hear the sentence of your moved prince.
And he beseech'd me to entreat your majesties
And hereabouts he dwells,--which late I noted
And here give up ourselves, in the full bent
And here he writes that he did buy a poison
And here is come to do some villanous shame
And here I stand, both to impeach and purge
And he, repulsed--a short tale to make--
And her immortal part with angels lives.
And he shall signify from time to time
And he to England shall along with you:
And he will make the face of heaven so fine
And hide me with a dead man in his shroud;
And hire post-horses; I will hence to-night.
And hire those horses; I'll be with thee straight.
And his commission to employ those soldiers,
And his sandal shoon.
And his to me:
And hither shall he come: and he and I
And hitherto doth love on fortune tend;
And hit the woundless air. O, come away!
And how, and who, what means, and where they keep,
And how his audit stands who knows save heaven?
And hurt my brother.
And I a maid at your window,
And I am nothing slow to slack his haste.
And I am proof against their enmity.
And I am sick at heart.
And I believe, it is a fetch of wit:
And I beseech you instantly to visit
And I do doubt the hatch and the disclose
And I do think, or else this brain of mine
And if he hear thee, thou wilt anger him.
And I for winking at your discords too
And, if thou darest, I'll give thee remedy.
And, if thou prate of mountains, let them throw
And, if we meet, we shall not scape a brawl;
And I'll believe thee.
And I'll be placed, so please you, in the ear
And ill-beseeming semblance for a feast.
And I'll no longer be a Capulet.
And I'll still stay, to have thee still forget,
And in a postscript here, he says 'alone.'
And, in despite, I'll cram thee with more food!
And in his grave rain'd many a tear:--
And in his needy shop a tortoise hung,
And in his wisdom hastes our marriage,
And in my temper soften'd valour's steel!
And in part him: ' do you mark this, Reynaldo?
And, in strong proof of chastity well arm'd,
And in the cup an union shall he throw,
And in their triumph die, like fire and powder,
And in the morn and liquid dew of youth
And in the porches of my ears did pour
And in the taste confounds the appetite:
And in this borrow'd likeness of shrunk death
And, in this brainish apprehension, kills
And in this harsh world draw thy breath in pain,
And, in this rage, with some great kinsman's bone,
And in this state she gallops night by night
And, in this upshot, purposes mistook
And I, of ladies most deject and wretched,
And is it not well served in to a sweet goose?
And I the matter will re-word; which madness
And it mis-sheathed in my daughter's bosom!
And it must follow, as the night the day,
And I will do it without fear or doubt,
And I will make thee think thy swan a crow.
And I will take thy word: yet if thou swear'st,
And I with them the third night kept the watch;
And joy comes well in such a needy time:
And Juliet bleeding, warm, and newly dead,
And keep her at my cell till Romeo come;
And keep you in the rear of your affection,
And know their spring, their head, their
And lay your hands again upon my sword:
And leads the will to desperate undertakings
And lead you even to death: meantime forbear,
And learn me how to lose a winning match,
And leave him all; life, living, all is Death's.
And let all sleep? while, to my shame, I see
And let him, for a pair of reechy kisses,
And let him know so.
And let me speak to the yet unknowing world
And let me wring your heart; for so I shall,
And let mischance be slave to patience.
And let the kettle to the trumpet speak,
And let them know, both what we mean to do,
And let the nurse this night sit up with you;
And let thine eye look like a friend on Denmark.
And let us hear Bernardo speak of this.
And let us once again assail your ears,
And light thee on thy way to Mantua:
And, like a man to double business bound,
And like a neutral to his will and matter,
And like her most whose merit most shall be:
And like the kind life-rendering pelican,
And little mouse, every unworthy thing,
And live the purer with the other half.
And loose your voice: what wouldst thou beg, Laertes,
And lose the name of action.--Soft you now!
And made Verona's ancient citizens
And madly play with my forefather's joints?
And make her airy tongue more hoarse than mine,
And makes as healthful music: it is not madness
And makes each petty artery in this body
And makes himself an artificial night:
And makes us rather bear those ills we have
And many such-like 'As'es of great charge,
And marshal me to knavery. Let it work;
And may not wear them. O, here comes my nurse,
And meant to wreck thee; but, beshrew my jealousy!
And melt in her own fire: proclaim no shame
And, mermaid-like, awhile they bore her up:
And, Montague, come you this afternoon,
And more above, hath his solicitings,
And more inconstant than the wind, who wooes
and more strange return.                  'HAMLET.'
And much offence too. Touching this vision here,
And my imaginations are as foul
And my young mistress thus I did bespeak:
And needly will be rank'd with other griefs,
And never come mischance between us twain!
And never did the Cyclops' hammers fall
And never from this palace of dim night
And never trouble Peter for the matter.
And none but fools do wear it; cast it off.
And not have strew'd thy grave.
And nothing is at a like goodness still;
And not impute this yielding to light love,
And not where I had aim'd them.
And now falls on her bed; and then starts up,
And now I'll do't. And so he goes to heaven;
And now, Laertes, what's the news with you?
And now no soil nor cautel doth besmirch
And of all Christian souls, I pray God. God be wi' ye.
And oft 'tis seen the wicked prize itself
and of very liberal conceit.
And, on my lie, hath stol'n him home to bed.
And our affairs from England come too late:
And our vain blows malicious mockery.
And palm to palm is holy palmers' kiss.
And Paris too. Come, I'll dispose of thee
And passion in the gods.'
And pay no worship to the garish sun.
And pious action we do sugar o'er
And pity 'tis 'tis true: a foolish figure;
And pity 'tis you lived at odds so long.
And pluck the mangled Tybalt from his shroud?
And praised be rashness for it, let us know,
And presently took post to tell it you:
And, pretty fool, it stinted and said 'Ay.'
And prey on garbage.
And private in his chamber pens himself,
And prologue to the omen coming on,
And put it in his pocket!
and queen moult no feather. I have of late--but
And quench the fire, the room is grown too hot.
and quickly too. Farewell.
And reason coldly of your grievances,
And reason panders will.
And recks not his own rede.
And Romeo dead; and Juliet, dead before,
And sails upon the bosom of the air.
And say'st thou yet that exile is not death?
And 'scape detecting, I will pay the theft.
And see how he will take it at your hands.
And see how one another lends content
And set a double varnish on the fame
And sets a blister there, makes marriage-vows
And shake the yoke of inauspicious stars
And shall I couple hell? O, fie! Hold, hold, my heart;
And she as much in love, her means much less
And she brings news; and every tongue that speaks
And she shall scant show well that now shows best.
And she steal love's sweet bait from fearful hooks:
And she, there dead, that Romeo's faithful wife:
And she, too desperate, would not go with me,
And she was wean'd,--I never shall forget it,--
And shrieks like mandrakes' torn out of the earth,
And since that time it is eleven years;
And, sister, as the winds give benefit
And sith so neighbour'd to his youth and havior,
And sleeps again. This is that very Mab
And smilest upon the stroke that murders me.
And so am I revenged. That would be scann'd:
And soar with them above a common bound.
And so did I.
And so did I:--Well, we were born to die.
And so, good Capulet,--which name I tender
and so I thank you for your good counsel. Come, my
And sometime comes she with a tithe-pig's tail
And soundly too: your houses!
And so, without more circumstance at all,
And spur my dull revenge! What is a man,
And stand a comma 'tween their amities,
And stay, good nurse, behind the abbey wall:
And stay thy lady too that lives in thee,
And steal immortal blessing from her lips,
And steep'd in blood? Ah, what an unkind hour
And still your fingers on your lips, I pray.
And stint thou too, I pray thee, nurse, say I.
And stole into the covert of the wood:
And strew this hungry churchyard with thy limbs:
And sure I am two men there are not living
And tediousness the limbs and outward flourishes,
And tell you what I know.
And terms compulsatory, those foresaid lands
And that bare vowel 'I' shall poison more
And that he calls for drink, I'll have prepared him
And that his soul may be as damn'd and black
And that, I hope, will teach you to imagine--
And that in Hamlet's hearing, for a quality
And that in way of caution, I must tell you,
And that I see, in passages of proof,
And that my master slew him.
And that our drift look through our bad performance,
And that shall lend a kind of easiness
And that the lean abhorred monster keeps
And that the trunk may be discharged of breath
And that we have a curse in having her:
And that your grace hath screen'd and stood between
And the continuance of their parents' rage,
And the demesnes that there adjacent lie,
And the king's rouse the heavens all bruit again,
And then awake as from a pleasant sleep.
And then down falls again.
And then dreams he of cutting foreign throats,
And then dreams he of smelling out a suit;
And then, I hope, thou wilt be satisfied.
And then in post he came from Mantua
And then I ran away to call the watch.
And then my husband--God be with his soul!
And then, they say, no spirit dares stir abroad;
And then this 'should' is like a spendthrift sigh,
And then to have a wretched puling fool,
And then will I be general of your woes,
and then, you know,
And the place death, considering who thou art,
And the rank poison of the old will die.
And there an end. But what say you to Thursday?
And there assume some other horrible form,
And there did seem in him a kind of joy
And there die strangled ere my Romeo comes?
And therefore hath the wind-swift Cupid wings.
And therefore have I little talk'd of love;
And therefore I forbid my tears: but yet
And therefore must his choice be circumscribed
And therefore thou mayst think my 'havior light:
And there I am. Where is my Romeo?
And there I see such black and grained spots
And there she shall at Friar Laurence' cell
And these few precepts in thy memory
And these, who often drown'd could never die,
And they can well on horseback: but this gallant
And they in France of the best rank and station
And they shall hear and judge 'twixt you and me:
And think it pastime. You shortly shall hear more:
And thirty dozen moons with borrow'd sheen
And this distilled liquor drink thou off;
And this same needy man must sell it me.
And this shall free thee from this present shame;
And thou and Romeo press one heavy bier!
And thou art wedded to calamity.
And thou dismember'd with thine own defence.
And thou must cure me: till I know 'tis done,
And thou shalt live in this fair world behind,
And threatened me with death, going in the vault,
And thrice his head thus waving up and down,
And thus awhile the fit will work on him;
And thus do we of wisdom and of reach,
And thus o'er-sized with coagulate gore,
And thus the native hue of resolution
And thy best graces spend it at thy will!
And thy commandment all alone shall live
And too soon marr'd are those so early made.
And, to say truth, Verona brags of him
And, to sink in it, should you burden love;
And to such wondrous doing brought his horse,
And, to the last, bended their light on me.
And to the manner born, it is a custom
And to those thorns that in her bosom lodge,
And to 't they go like lightning, for, ere I
And, touching hers, make blessed my rude hand.
And trust me, love, in my eye so do you:
And turn'd that black word death to banishment:
And turns it to exile; there art thou happy:
And 'twixt them rushes; underneath whose arm
And Tybalt calls; and then on Romeo cries,
And Tybalt's dead, that would have slain my husband:
And usest none in that true use indeed
And vanish'd from our sight.
And vice sometimes by action dignified.
And wager on your heads: he, being remiss,
And waits upon the judgment: and what judgment
And wants not buzzers to infect his ear
And we beseech you, bend you to remain
And we cast away moan:
And we did think it writ down in our duty
And weep ye now, seeing she is advanced
And we mean well in going to this mask;
And we shall jointly labour with your soul
And what I spake, I spake it to my face.
And what love can do that dares love attempt;
And what make you from Wittenberg, Horatio? Marcellus?
And what obscured in this fair volume lies
And what's in prayer but this two-fold force,
And whatsoever else shall hap to-night,
And what so poor a man as Hamlet is
And what to?
And when he's not himself does wrong Laertes,
And when you are desirous to be bless'd,
And where care lodges, sleep will never lie;
And where the offence is let the great axe fall.
And where the worser is predominant,
And where tis so, the offender's scourge is weigh'd,
And who in want a hollow friend doth try,
And why, my lady wisdom? hold your tongue,
And why such daily cast of brazen cannon,
and wife is one flesh; and so, my mother. Come, for England!
And will he not come again?
And will not let belief take hold of him
And will not wrong it.
and will speak more in a minute than he will stand
And will this brother's wager frankly play.
And wish his mistress were that kind of fruit
And with a larger tether may he walk
And with a look so piteous in purport
And, with a martial scorn, with one hand beats
And with a silk thread plucks it back again,
And with a sudden vigour doth posset
And, with his head over his shoulder turn'd,
And, with his other hand thus o'er his brow,
And with my child my joys are buried.
And with no less nobility of love
And with such cozenage--is't not perfect conscience,
And with such maimed rites? This doth betoken
And with the incorporal air do hold discourse?
And, with them, words of so sweet breath composed
And with this knife I'll help it presently.
And, with wild looks, bid me devise some mean
And world's exile is death: then banished,
And--would it were not so!--you are my mother.
And yet, I warrant, it had upon its brow
And yet I wish but for the thing I have:
And yet I would it were to give again.
And yet no further than a wanton's bird;
And yet no man like he doth grieve my heart.
And yet not fall; so light is vanity.
And yet 'not proud,' mistress minion, you,
And yet, to my teeth be it spoken, I have but four--
And you are stay'd for. There; my blessing with thee!
And you be not, hang, beg, starve, die in
And you must needs have heard, how I am punish'd
And you must put me in your heart for friend,
And you, my sinews, grow not instant old,
And young affection gapes to be his heir;
And yours, close fighting ere I did approach:
And you, the judges, bear a wary eye.
And you yourself shall keep the key of it.
an egg for quarrelling: thou hast quarrelled with a
An envious thrust from Tybalt hit the life
An eye like Mars, to threaten and command;
An hour but married, Tybalt murdered,
An hour of quiet shortly shall we see;
An if thou couldst, thou couldst not make him live;
An if you leave me so, you do me wrong.
An I might live to see thee married once,
An I were so apt to quarrel as thou art, any man
An old hare hoar,
Anon!
Anon, as patient as the female dove,
Anon comes one with light to ope the tomb;
Anon, good nurse! Sweet Montague, be true.
anon; 'tis a knavish piece of work: but what o'
An open et caetera, thou a poperin pear!
Another hit; what say you?
another: you jig, you amble, and you lisp, and
An she agree, within her scope of choice
Answer, and think upon this business.
An thou hadst not come to my bed.
Antiquity forgot, custom not known,
Antony, and Potpan!
An understanding simple and unschool'd:
any in Italy, and as soon moved to be moody, and as
Any man that can write may answer a letter.
An you be mine, I'll give you to my friend;
An you call him a-down-a.
apiece of uncurrent gold, be not cracked within the
Appears before them, and with solemn march
Appear thou in the likeness of a sigh:
are as mad as he.
Are base respects of thrift, but none of love:
Are burnt and purged away. But that I am forbid
are ever thrust to the wall: therefore I will push
Are here arrived give order that these bodies
Are joyfully return'd.
Are made already mothers: by my count,
Are mortised and adjoin'd; which, when it falls,
are not mine.
Are of a most select and generous chief in that.
Are you at leisure, holy father, now;
Are you so hot? marry, come up, I trow;
Arise, fair sun, and kill the envious moon,
arithmetic! Why the devil came you between us? I
Armed at point exactly, cap-a-pe,
Arms, take your last embrace! and, lips, O you
Aroused vengeance sets him new a-work;
Art more engaged! Help, angels! Make assay!
Art thou a man? thy form cries out thou art:
Art thou gone so? love, lord, ay, husband, friend!
Art thou not Romeo and a Montague?
Art thou so bare and full of wretchedness,
As all the world--why, he's a man of wax.
As any the most vulgar thing to sense,
As are behoveful for our state to-morrow:
As are companions noted and most known
As by your safety, wisdom, all things else,
Ascend her chamber, hence and comfort her:
As checking at his voyage, and that he means
As day does to your eye.
As daylight doth a lamp; her eyes in heaven
As dearly as my own,--be satisfied.
As deep as to the lungs? who does me this?
As did that one, and that, in my regard,
As e'er my conversation coped withal.
As England was his faithful tributary,
As false as dicers' oaths: O, such a deed
As fits a king's remembrance.
As from the body of contraction plucks
As glorious to this night, being o'er my head
ashamed to show, he'll not shame to tell you what it means.
As harbingers preceding still the fates
As hardy as the Nemean lion's nerve.
As he had been incorpsed and demi-natured
As he in his particular act and place
As he is very potent with such spirits,
As hell, whereto it goes. My mother stays:
As he was coming from this churchyard side.
As he would draw it. Long stay'd he so;
As how should it be so? how otherwise?--
As hush as death, anon the dreadful thunder
As I did sleep under this yew-tree here,
As I do thee.--Something too much of this.--
As if he had been loosed out of hell
As if I had never been such.
As if increase of appetite had grown
As if it some impartment did desire
As if that name,
as if you would drive me into a toil?
As I hate hell, all Montagues, and thee:
As I intended, for it wrought on her
As in a vault, an ancient receptacle,
As infinite as man may undergo--
As, in their birth--wherein they are not guilty,
As I perceived it, I must tell you that,
As I perchance hereafter shall think meet
As I remember, this should be the house.
As is a winged messenger of heaven
As is the bud bit with an envious worm,
As is the night before some festival
As it behoves my daughter and your honour.
As it did seem to shatter all his bulk
As it doth well appear unto our state--
As it hath used to do, that I have found
As it is common for the younger sort
As kill a king, and marry with his brother.
ask you what it means, say you this:
As level as the cannon to his blank,
As living here and you no use of him.
As love between them like the palm might flourish,
As low as to the fiends!'
As made the things more rich: their perfume lost,
As maids call medlars, when they laugh alone.
As make your bouts more violent to that end--
as many of your players do, I had as lief the
As may dishonour him; take heed of that;
As meditation or the thoughts of love,
As mine on hers, so hers is set on mine;
As much to him, else is his thanks too much.
As my great power thereof may give thee sense,
As needful in our loves, fitting our duty?
As of a father: for let the world take note,
As oft as any passion under heaven
As one dead in the bottom of a tomb:
As one incapable of her own distress,
As one, in suffering all, that suffers nothing,
as pale as any clout in the versal world. Doth not
As Paris hath. Beshrew my very heart,
As peace should stiff her wheaten garland wear
As Phaethon would whip you to the west,
As rich shall Romeo's by his lady's lie;
assembly: whither should they come?
As signal that thou hear'st something approach.
assigns, as girdle, hangers, and so: three of the
As stars with trains of fire and dews of blood,
Assume a virtue, if you have it not.
ass will not mend his pace with beating; and, when
As that is desperate which we would prevent.
As that of true and faithful Juliet.
As that the villain lives which slaughter'd him.
As that vast shore wash'd with the farthest sea,
As there are tongues, are hands, are accidents;
As therein are set down.
As they fell out by time, by means and place,
As thus, 'I know his father and his friends,
As to expend your time with us awhile,
As to give words or talk with the Lord Hamlet.
As to peace-parted souls.
As 'twere a thing a little soil'd i' the working, Mark you,
As violently as hasty powder fired
As Vulcan's stithy. Give him heedful note;
As watchman to my heart. But, good my brother,
As we have warrantise: her death was doubtful;
As 'Well, well, we know,' or 'We could, an if we would,'
As will disperse itself through all the veins
As will not leave their tinct.
As with a club, dash out my desperate brains?
As yonder lady o'er her fellows shows.
As you are friends, scholars and soldiers,
As you think fit to furnish me to-morrow?
At gaming, swearing, or about some act
At his head a grass-green turf,
At his heels a stone.
Athwart men's noses as they lie asleep;
At last, a little shaking of mine arm
At least I'm sure it may be so in Denmark:
At least, the whisper goes so. Our last king,
At my poor house look to behold this night
at sea, a pirate of very warlike appointment gave us
At some hours in the night spirits resort;--
Attends the boisterous ruin. Never alone
At the hour of nine.
At the prefixed hour of her waking,
at this line: let me see, let me see--
At this same ancient feast of Capulet's
At thy good heart's oppression.
Awake the god of day; and, at his warning,
Away, begone; the sport is at the best.
Away! for every thing is seal'd and done
Away from the light steals home my heavy son,
Away to heaven, respective lenity,
ay?
Ay, ay, a scratch, a scratch; marry, 'tis enough.
Ay, if I know the letters and the language.
Ay, let the county take you in your bed;
Ay, madam, from the reach of these my hands:
Ay, marry, go, I say, and fetch him hither.
Ay me!
Ay me! sad hours seem long.
Ay me! what news? why dost thou wring thy hands?
Ay, mine own fortune in my misery.
Ay, nurse; what of that? both with an R.
Ay, pilgrim, lips that they must use in prayer.
Ay, so I fear; the more is my unrest.
Ay, the heads of the maids, or their maidenheads;
Ay, those attires are best: but, gentle nurse,
Ay, thou poor ghost, while memory holds a seat
Ay, while you live, draw your neck out o' the collar.
Back, foolish tears, back to your native spring;
Baked and impasted with the parching streets,
Banish'd the new-made bridegroom from the city,
Be all my sins remember'd.
Bear Hamlet, like a soldier, to the stage;
Bear hence this body and attend our will:
Bearing a Tartar's painted bow of lath,
Bears such an emphasis? whose phrase of sorrow
Bear't that the opposed may beware of thee.
Be as ourself in Denmark. Madam, come;
beast be lord of beasts, and his crib shall stand at
beaten way of friendship, what make you at Elsinore?
beautified Ophelia,'--
Beautiful tyrant! fiend angelical!
Beauty too rich for use, for earth too dear!
Be buried quick with her, and so will I:
Be but to sleep and feed? a beast, no more.
Because he married me before to Romeo?
Because it is an enemy to thee;
because musicians have no gold for sounding:
Because their breaths with sweetmeats tainted are:
Becomes the field, but here shows much amiss.
Been struck so to the soul that presently
Been thus encounter'd. A figure like your father,
Before mine uncle: I'll observe his looks;
Before my daughter told me--what might you,
Before you visit him, to make inquire
Begot of nothing but vain fantasy,
Beg pardon of the prince, and call thee back
Beguiled, divorced, wronged, spited, slain!
be hangers till then. But, on: six Barbary horses
Be heap'd like mine and that thy skill be more
Behind the arras hearing something stir,
Behind the arras I'll convey myself,
Being a divine, a ghostly confessor,
Being a thing immortal as itself?
Being black put us in mind they hide the fair;
Being but heavy, I will bear the light.
Being held a foe, he may not have access
Being holiday, the beggar's shop is shut.
Being in night, all this is but a dream,
Being loose, unfirm, with digging up of graves,
Being nature's livery, or fortune's star,--
Being our kinsman, if we revel much:
Being purged, a fire sparkling in lovers' eyes;
Being spoke behind your back, than to your face.
Being tasted, slays all senses with the heart.
Being the time the potion's force should cease.
Being vex'd a sea nourish'd with lovers' tears:
be last swallowed: when he needs what you have
Believe me, love, it was the nightingale.
Believe so much in him, that he is young
Belonging to a man. O, be some other name!
be my lord such-a-one, that praised my lord
Be not her maid, since she is envious;
Be not so long to speak; I long to die,
Benvolio, who began this bloody fray?
Be patient, for the world is broad and wide.
Be quiet, or--More light, more light! For shame!
be-rhyme her; Dido a dowdy; Cleopatra a gipsy;
Be ruled by me, forget to think of her.
Be sacrificed, some hour before his time,
Beshrew your heart for sending me about,
Be shrived and married. Here is for thy pains.
Besides, to be demanded of a sponge! what
Be soft as sinews of the newborn babe!
Be somewhat scanter of your maiden presence;
Bestial oblivion, or some craven scruple
bestowed? Do you hear, let them be well used; for
Be thou a spirit of health or goblin damn'd,
Be thou familiar, but by no means vulgar.
Be thy intents wicked or charitable,
Betroth'd and would have married her perforce
better--their writers do them wrong, to make them
between earth and heaven? We are arrant knaves,
Between the pass and fell incensed points
between yourself and him, he shall not exceed you
Be wary then; best safety lies in fear:
Be you and I behind an arras then;
Be you content to lend your patience to us,
be your tutor: suit the action to the word, the
Bid a sick man in sadness make his will:
Bid her devise
bite my thumb, sir.
Black and portentous must this humour prove,
Black as his purpose, did the night resemble
Blasted with ecstasy: O, woe is me,
Blasting his wholesome brother. Have you eyes?
blessing: but not as your daughter may conceive.
blind bow-boy's butt-shaft: and is he a man to
Blind is his love and best befits the dark.
Blister'd be thy tongue
Blubbering and weeping, weeping and blubbering.
Bondage is hoarse, and may not speak aloud;
bones, their bones!
borne me on his back a thousand times; and now, how
Both by myself and many other friends:
Both countenance and excuse. Ho, Guildenstern!
Both here and hence pursue me lasting strife,
Both to my God and to my gracious king:
Both you and I; for Romeo is exiled:
both your houses! 'Zounds, a dog, a rat, a mouse, a
bound for England; if your name be Horatio, as I am
Bow, stubborn knees; and, heart with strings of steel,
Boy, this shall not excuse the injuries
Brags of his substance, not of ornament:
Break all the spokes and fellies from her wheel,
Break we our watch up; and by my advice,
Breathing like sanctified and pious bawds,
breeder of sinners? I am myself indifferent honest;
breed. If it shall please you to make me a
Brief let me be. Sleeping within my orchard,
Brief sounds determine of my weal or woe.
Bring forth the parties of suspicion.
Bring with thee airs from heaven or blasts from hell,
brisk awhile, and the longer liver take all.
Burn out the sense and virtue of mine eye!
But age, with his stealing steps,
But a hare that is hoar
But all so soon as the all-cheering sun
But answer made it none: yet once methought
But, as it seems, did violence on herself.
But, as we often see, against some storm,
But, as you will not wed, I'll pardon you:
But 'banished' to kill me?--'banished'?
But bear me stiffly up. Remember thee!
but be merry? for, look you, how cheerfully my
But, better look'd into, he truly found
but blow them to their trial, the bubbles are out.
But break, my heart; for I must hold my tongue.
But by and by comes back to Romeo,
But chiefly to take thence from her dead finger
But come, young waverer, come, go with me,
But die thy thoughts when thy first lord is dead.
But do not dull thy palm with entertainment
But do not go with it.
But even his mother shall uncharge the practise
But even then the morning cock crew loud,
But every man betake him to his legs.
But fall, unshaken, when they mellow be.
But farewell it, for I will use no art.
But fettle your fine joints 'gainst Thursday next,
but first let me tell ye, if ye should lead her into
But for the sunset of my brother's son
But from what cause he will by no means speak.
But greatly to find quarrel in a straw
But heaven keeps his part in eternal life.
But he, his own affections' counsellor,
But he's an arrant knave.
But He, that hath the steerage of my course,
But he which bore my letter, Friar John,
But, howsoever thou pursuest this act,
But I, a maid, die maiden-widowed.
But I am pigeon-liver'd and lack gall
But I am very sorry, good Horatio,
But I do prophesy the election lights
But, if't be he I mean, he's very wild;
But if the gods themselves did see her then
But if thou, jealous, dost return to pry
But, if you hold it fit, after the play
But I have that within which passeth show;
But I'll amerce you with so strong a fine
But I'll be hanged, sir, if he wear your livery:
but, I'll warrant him, as gentle as a lamb. Go thy
But in a fiction, in a dream of passion,
But in battalions. First, her father slain:
But in our circumstance and course of thought,
But in that crystal scales let there be weigh'd
But in the gross and scope of my opinion,
But it reserved some quantity of choice,
But I will delve one yard below their mines,
But I will watch you from such watching now.
But I will write again to Mantua,
But keep a farm and carters.
But let it be. Horatio, I am dead;
But let me hear from you.
But let that go.
But let them measure us by what they will;
But let this same be presently perform'd,
But, like a misbehaved and sullen wench,
But, like the owner of a foul disease,
But, look, amazement on thy mother sits:
But, look, the morn, in russet mantle clad,
But look thou stay not till the watch be set,
But love from love, toward school with heavy looks.
But love thee better than thou canst devise,
But mad in craft. 'Twere good you let him know;
But mere implorators of unholy suits,
But Montague is bound as well as I,
But much of grief shows still some want of wit.
But my true love is grown to such excess
But never doubt I love.
But never the offence. To bear all smooth and even,
But new struck nine.
But no more deep will I endart mine eye
But not express'd in fancy; rich, not gaudy;
But not possess'd it, and, though I am sold,
But now I'll tell thee joyful tidings, girl.
But now I see this one is one too much,
But now, my cousin Hamlet, and my son,--
But now, my lord, what say you to my suit?
But, O, it presses to my memory,
But old folks, many feign as they were dead;
But one, poor one, one poor and loving child,
But one thing to rejoice and solace in,
But, orderly to end where I begun,
But our cold maids do dead men's fingers call them:
But pardon't, as you are a gentleman.
But passion lends them power, time means, to meet
But purgatory, torture, hell itself.
But Romeo may not; he is banished:
But Romeo may not: more validity,
But Romeo's name speaks heavenly eloquence.
But sadly tell me who.
But saying o'er what I have said before:
But send him back.
But she's best married that dies married young.
But since he is better'd, we have therefore odds.
But since, so jump upon this bloody question,
But, sir, such wanton, wild and usual slips
But soft, behold! lo, where it comes again!
But soft! but soft! aside: here comes the king.
But, soft! methinks I scent the morning air;
But, soft! what day is this?
But, soft! what light through yonder window breaks?
But, sure, the bravery of his grief did put me
But thankful even for hate, that is meant love.
But that a joy past joy calls out on me,
But that I know love is begun by time;
But that the dread of something after death,
But that this folly douts it.
But that thou overheard'st, ere I was ware,
But the great cannon to the clouds shall tell,
But then a noise did scare me from the tomb;
But the true ground of all these piteous woes
But this eternal blazon must not be
But this most foul, strange and unnatural.
But thou art not quickly moved to strike.
But thou shalt hear it: whistle then to me,
But thou slew'st Tybalt; there are thou happy too:
But 'tis no wit to go.
But to be frank, and give it thee again.
But to confront the visage of offence?
But to himself so secret and so close,
But to his foe supposed he must complain,
But to my mind, though I am native here
button, a duellist, a duellist; a gentleman of the
but to play at loggats with 'em? mine ache to think on't.
But to recover of us, by strong hand
But to rejoice in splendor of mine own.
But to the earth some special good doth give,
But truly, I do fear it.
But trust me, gentleman, I'll prove more true
But two months dead: nay, not so much, not two:
But virtue, as it never will be moved,
But we will ship him hence: and this vile deed
But what, in faith, make you from Wittenberg?
But what is your affair in Elsinore?
But what we do determine oft we break.
But when I came, some minute ere the time
But, wherefore, villain, didst thou kill my cousin?
But where unbruised youth with unstuff'd brain
But wilt thou hear me how I did proceed?
But, with a crafty madness, keeps aloof,
But with a rear-ward following Tybalt's death,
But with the whiff and wind of his fell sword
But, woe is me, you are so sick of late,
But woo her, gentle Paris, get her heart,
but yet I could accuse me of such things that it
But yet to me they are strong. The queen his mother
But you'll be secret?
But, you must know, your father lost a father;
But you shall bear the burden soon at night.
Buys out the law: but 'tis not so above;
By a name
By and by, I come:--
By any other name would smell as sweet;
By cock, they are to blame.
By cruel cruel thee quite overthrown!
By desperate appliance are relieved,
By doing damned hate upon thyself?
By Gis and by Saint Charity,
By giving liberty unto thine eyes;
By having him, making yourself no less.
By heaven, I'll make a ghost of him that lets me!
By heaven, I love thee better than myself;
By heaven, it is as proper to our age
By heaven, I will tear thee joint by joint
By heaven, thy madness shall be paid by weight,
By her fine foot, straight leg and quivering thigh
By her high forehead and her scarlet lip,
By his cockle hat and staff,
By holy Laurence to fall prostrate here,
By holy marriage: when and where and how
By indirections find directions out:
By laboursome petition, and at last
By leaving earth? comfort me, counsel me.
By letters congruing to that effect,
By love, who first did prompt me to inquire;
By my head, here come the Capulets.
By my heel, I care not.
By one that I'll procure to come to thee,
By playing it to me with so sour a face.
By some vile forfeit of untimely death.
by the ears? make haste, lest mine be about your
By thee, old Capulet, and Montague,
By their oppress'd and fear-surprised eyes,
By their own beauties; or, if love be blind,
By the o'ergrowth of some complexion,
By this encompassment and drift of question
By urging me to fury: O, be gone!
By what it fed on: and yet, within a month--
By whose direction found'st thou out this place?
Cain's jaw-bone, that did the first murder! It
calendar of gentry, for you shall find in him the
called, my young lady asked for, the nurse cursed in
Call, good Mercutio.
Call me but love, and I'll be new baptized;
Call Peter, he will show thee where they are.
Calls virtue hypocrite, takes off the rose
call them--that many wearing rapiers are afraid of
Call this a lightning? O my love! my wife!
Came he not home to-night?
Came I to take her from her kindred's vault;
Came more and more and fought on part and part,
Came to this vault to die, and lie with Juliet.
Can heaven be so envious?
Can I demand.
Can I go forward when my heart is here?
Canker'd with peace, to part your canker'd hate:
can lick their fingers.
Cannot choose but ever weep the friend.
cannot choose but weep, to think they should lay him
cannot play upon me.
Can serve my turn? 'Forgive me my foul murder'?
Can vengeance be pursued further than death?
Can you advise me?
Capitol; Brutus killed me.
Caps, hands, and tongues, applaud it to the clouds:
card, or equivocation will undo us. By the Lord,
Care keeps his watch in every old man's eye,
carriages, in faith, are very dear to fancy, very
carried away. The Poisoner wooes the Queen with
Carrying, I say, the stamp of one defect,
Carve for himself; for on his choice depends
Cast by their grave beseeming ornaments,
cat, to scratch a man to death! a braggart, a
caviare to the general: but it was--as I received
censure of the which one must in your allowance
charge you withal, be even and direct with me,
chase. Finding ourselves too slow of sail, we put on
Chequering the eastern clouds with streaks of light,
chiefly loved: 'twas Aeneas' tale to Dido; and
choice Italian: you shall see anon how the murderer
Christian burial.
Christian. Come, my spade. There is no ancient
church-door; but 'tis enough,'twill serve: ask for
Clambering to hang, an envious sliver broke;
coach! Good night, ladies; good night, sweet ladies;
Cold death aside, and with the other sends
Colleagued with the dream of his advantage,
Collected from all simples that have virtue
Come between us, good Benvolio; my wits faint.
Come, bitter conduct, come, unsavoury guide!
Come, come, thou art as hot a Jack in thy mood as
Come, cordial and not poison, go with me
Come, cords, come, nurse; I'll to my wedding-bed;
Come, death, and welcome! Juliet wills it so.
comedy, history, pastoral, pastoral-comical,
Come, gentle night, come, loving, black-brow'd night,
Come, Gertrude, we'll call up our wisest friends;
Come, go, good Juliet,
Come, go with me.
Come, he hath hid himself among these trees,
Come hither, cover'd with an antic face,
Come hither, gentlemen,
Come hither, man. I see that thou art poor:
Come hither, nurse. What is yond gentleman?
Come, I will make you way for these your letters;
Come, knock and enter; and no sooner in,
Come Lammas-eve at night shall she be fourteen.
Come, let's away; the strangers all are gone.
come; make her laugh at that. Prithee, Horatio, tell
Come, Montague; for thou art early up,
Come, night; come, Romeo; come, thou day in night;
Come on--you hear this fellow in the cellarage--
Come pentecost as quickly as it will,
Comes armed through our watch; so like the king
Come, shall we go?
Come short of what he did.
Come, sir, to draw toward an end with you.
Come, sir, your passado.
Come, some music!
Come, stir, stir, stir! the second cock hath crow'd,
comest thou to beard me in Denmark? What, my young
come then: the appurtenance of welcome is fashion
Come to redeem me? there's a fearful point!
Come to thy heart as that within my breast!
Come, vial.
Come weep with me; past hope, past cure, past help!
Come you to make confession to this father?
comical-historical-pastoral, scene individable, or
coming, to offer you service.
commandment: if not, your pardon and my return
Commend me to thy lady.
Compare her face with some that I shall show,
complexion.
Conceit in weakest bodies strongest works:
Conceit, more rich in matter than in words,
Condemned villain, I do apprehend thee:
Confederate season, else no creature seeing;
Confound the ignorant, and amaze indeed
Conjures the wandering stars, and makes them stand
Conscience and grace, to the profoundest pit!
Consent to swear.
Consort! what, dost thou make us minstrels? an
constrains a man to bow in the hams.
Contagion to this world: now could I drink hot blood,
Contagious blastments are most imminent.
Contempt and beggary hangs upon thy back;
Content thee, gentle coz, let him alone;
continent of what part a gentleman would see.
controversy: there was, for a while, no money bid
Convert his gyves to graces; so that my arrows,
convocation of politic worms are e'en at him. Your
Costly thy habit as thy purse can buy,
Couch we awhile, and mark.
could carry cannon by our sides: I would it might
Could draw to part them, was stout Tybalt slain.
Could force his soul so to his own conceit
could he dig without arms? I'll put another
Could not so mope.
could not so prosperously be delivered of. I will
Could not take truce with the unruly spleen
Could not, with all their quantity of love,
could see the puppets dallying.
Could to no issue of true honour bring.
Could we but learn from whence his sorrows grow.
Could you not take some occasion without giving?
Could you on this fair mountain leave to feed,
County Anselme and his beauteous sisters; the lady
Courage, man; the hurt cannot be much.
course for England: of them I have much to tell
court-cupboard, look to the plate. Good thou, save
courteous, and a kind, and a handsome, and, I
Craves the conveyance of a promised march
creatures else to fat us, and we fat ourselves for
cried in the top of mine--an excellent play, well
Cries cuckold to my father, brands the harlot
crown, kisses it, and pours poison in the King's
Cry but 'Ay me!' pronounce but 'love' and 'dove;'
Cry to be heard, as 'twere from heaven to earth,
cuffs in the question.
Culling of simples; meagre were his looks,
custom of exercises; and indeed it goes so heavily
Cut off even in the blossoms of my sin,
Cuts beauty off from all posterity.
Dangerous conjectures in ill-breeding minds.
Dared to the combat; in which our valiant Hamlet--
dares, being dared.
daughter. Lord, we know what we are, but know not
daughter: yet he knew me not at first; he said I
Day, night, hour, tide, time, work, play,
dead, and makes passionate action. The Poisoner,
Dead art thou! Alack! my child is dead;
deal justly with me: come, come; nay, speak.
Dear maid, kind sister, sweet Ophelia!
Death is my son-in-law, Death is my heir;
Death lies on her like an untimely frost
Death, lie thou there, by a dead man interr'd.
Death, that hath suck'd the honey of thy breath,
Death, that hath ta'en her hence to make me wail,
Delay it not; I'll have him hence to-night:
Delay this marriage for a month, a week;
Deliberate pause: diseases desperate grown
Denmark, and those that would make mows at him while
Deny thy father and refuse thy name;
Depart again: here, here will I remain
Deprived thee of! Hold off the earth awhile,
Despised, distressed, hated, martyr'd, kill'd!
Despised substance of divinest show!
Devised a new commission, wrote it fair:
Devoutly to be wish'd. To die, to sleep;
dial is now upon the prick of noon.
Did coldly furnish forth the marriage tables.
Did ever dragon keep so fair a cave?
Did forfeit, with his life, all those his lands
Did Hamlet so envenom with his envy
did; I am to do a good turn for them. Let the king
Did murder her; as that name's cursed hand
Did my heart love till now? forswear it, sight!
Did not attend him as we rode? I think
Did nothing.
Did not together pluck such envy from him
Did slay this Fortinbras; who by a seal'd compact,
Did sometimes march? by heaven I charge thee, speak!
Did squeak and gibber in the Roman streets:
didst thou not fall out with a tailor for wearing
Did the king sigh, but with a general groan.
died: they say he made a good end,--
Dies in his own too much: that we would do
Dies not alone; but, like a gulf, doth draw
differences, of very soft society and great showing:
digested in the scenes, set down with as much
Digressing from the valour of a man;
Directly seasons him his enemy.
Direct my sail! On, lusty gentlemen.
Disasters in the sun; and the moist star
Discomfort you, my lord, it nothing must:
discords: here's my fiddlestick; here's that shall
Displant a town, reverse a prince's doom,
Divided from herself and her fair judgment,
dizzy the arithmetic of memory, and yet but yaw
Do as thou wilt, for I have done with thee.
Do ebb and flow with tears; the bark thy body is,
Does by their own insinuation grow:
Does not divide the Sunday from the week;
does well; but how does it well? it does well to
Do I impart toward you. For your intent
Do I live dead that live to tell it now.
Doing more murders in this loathsome world,
Do lace the severing clouds in yonder east:
done, for thou hast more of the wild-goose in one of
Do not, as some ungracious pastors do,
Do not believe his vows; for they are brokers,
Do not deny to him that you love me.
Do not for ever with thy vailed lids
Do not itself unkennel in one speech,
Do not swear at all;
Doom'd for a certain term to walk the night,
doomsday. Go, get thee to Yaughan: fetch me a
Do so, and bid my sweet prepare to chide.
Dost thou hear me, old friend; can you play the
Dost thou love me? I know thou wilt say 'Ay,'
Dost thou not bring me letters from the friar?
Dost thou not laugh?
do, surely, bar the door upon your own liberty, if
Doth add more grief to too much of mine own.
Doth all the noble substance of a doubt
Doth couch his limbs, there golden sleep doth reign:
Doth grace for grace and love for love allow;
Doth hurry from the fatal cannon's womb.
Doth make against me of this direful murder;
Doth make the night joint-labourer with the day:
Doth much excuse the appertaining rage
Doth my name lodge? tell me, that I may sack
Do thou but call my resolution wise,
Do thou but close our hands with holy words,
Doth rend the region, so, after Pyrrhus' pause,
Doth she not think me an old murderer,
Doth with his lofty and shrill-sounding throat
Doting like me and like me banished,
Doubt that the sun doth move;
Doubt truth to be a liar;
Dove-feather'd raven! wolvish-ravening lamb!
Do with their death bury their parents' strife.
down, an a' were lustier than he is, and twenty such
Down with the Capulets! down with the Montagues!
Do you believe his tenders, as you call them?
Do you bite your thumb at us, sir?
Do you consent we shall acquaint him with it,
Do you not see that I am out of breath?
Do you quarrel, sir?
Drabbing: you may go so far.
draw as soon as another man, if I see occasion in a
Draw, Benvolio; beat down their weapons.
Draw, if you be men. Gregory, remember thy swashing blow.
Drawn with a team of little atomies
Drink off this potion. Is thy union here?
Driving back shadows over louring hills:
drown or hang themselves, more than their even
Drums in his ear, at which he starts and wakes,
Dry sorrow drinks our blood. Adieu, adieu!
Dry up your tears, and stick your rosemary
dumb; yet are they much too light for the bore of
Each opposite that blanks the face of joy
Each part, deprived of supple government,
Each small annexment, petty consequence,
Each toy seems prologue to some great amiss:
ears, and exit. The Queen returns; finds the King
ears ere it be out.
Ears without hands or eyes, smelling sans all,
earth, seems to me a sterile promontory, this most
Earth-treading stars that make dark heaven light:
earth we make loam; and why of that loam, whereto he
ease:' O, an you will have me live, play 'Heart's ease.'
easier to be played on than a pipe? Call me what
Eats not the flats with more impetuous haste
eight. Will you pluck your sword out of his pitcher
Either be gone before the watch be set,
either good or bad, but thinking makes it so: to me
Either my eyesight fails, or thou look'st pale.
Either thou, or I, or both, must go with him.
Either withdraw unto some private place,
Else could you not have motion; but sure, that sense
Else, when he's found, that hour is his last.
Else would a maiden blush bepaint my cheek
Else would I tear the cave where Echo lies,
embracing him, and he her. She kneels, and makes
encounter Tybalt?
England! Farewell, dear mother.
enrich the hand
enters the confines of a tavern claps me his sword
entertainment than yours. You are welcome: but my
entertainment to Laertes before you fall to play.
Environed with all these hideous fears?
epitaph than their ill report while you live.
Ere he can spread his sweet leaves to the air,
Ere he, that should be husband, comes to woo.
Ere I again behold my Romeo!
Ere I could make a prologue to my brains,
Ere one can say 'It lightens.' Sweet, good night!
Ere we may think her ripe to be a bride.
Ere yet the salt of most unrighteous tears
Even for an egg-shell. Rightly to be great
Even here, between the chaste unsmirched brow
Even in their promise, as it is a-making,
Even now the frozen bosom of the north,
Even on the pith of Life. Where is he gone?
Even to the teeth and forehead of our faults,
Even while men's minds are wild; lest more mischance
Even with the very comment of thy soul
Evermore showering? In one little body
Every good hap to you that chances here:
Examine every married lineament,
Examine other beauties.
excellent canopy, the air, look you, this brave
excellent voice, in this little organ; yet cannot
Exchange forgiveness with me, noble Hamlet:
Excitements of my reason and my blood,
exclaim against their own succession?
Exposing what is mortal and unsure
express and admirable! in action how like an angel!
Extorted treasure in the womb of earth,
eye but such an eye would spy out such a quarrel?
eye or so, but not to the purpose. Signior
Eyes without feeling, feeling without sight,
face be better than any man's, yet his leg excels
Fain would I dwell on form, fain, fain deny
fairer face.
fairly last night.
Fall'n on the inventors' reads: all this can I
Fall ten times treble on that cursed head,
fantasticoes; these new tuners of accents! 'By Jesu,
Farewell!
Farewell, ancient lady; farewell,
Farewell, and let your haste commend your duty.
Farewell; be trusty, and I'll quit thy pains:
Farewell: buy food, and get thyself in flesh.
Farewell; commend me to thy mistress.
Farewell, dear father!
Farewell, farewell! one kiss, and I'll descend.
Farewell! God knows when we shall meet again.
Farewell: my blessing season this in thee!
Farewell, my coz.
Farewell, my lord. Light to my chamber, ho!
Farewell: thou canst not teach me to forget.
Fare you well, my dove!
fashion, and so berattle the common stages--so they
Father, what news? what is the prince's doom?
Fear it, Ophelia, fear it, my dear sister,
Fear me not.
Fear me not: withdraw, I hear him coming.
Feather of lead, bright smoke, cold fire,
Feeds on his wonder, keeps himself in clouds,
Feeling so the loss,
Fell in the weeping brook. Her clothes spread wide;
Fell into a sadness, then into a fast,
fellowship in a cry of players, sir?
Fetch me my rapier, boy. What dares the slave
Fie, fie, thou shamest thy shape, thy love, thy wit;
Fie, how my bones ache! what a jaunt have I had!
Fie on't! ah fie! 'tis an unweeded garden,
Fie upon't! foh! About, my brain! I have heard
find him not there, seek him i' the other place
Find written in the margent of his eyes.
Finger'd their packet, and in fine withdrew
fingers goes not with me.
first and now, was and is, to hold, as 'twere, the
fit.
Five times in that ere once in our five wits.
Fix'd on the summit of the highest mount,
flagon of Rhenish on my head once. This same skull,
Flies may do this, but I from this must fly:
Flower as she was, deflowered by him.
Fly hence, and leave me: think upon these gone;
Folded the writ up in form of the other,
Follow me close, for I will speak to them.
Follow my mother.
foolish ear.
fool no where but in's own house. Farewell.
For and a shrouding sheet:
for; and there is a kind of confession in your looks
for argument, unless the poet and the player went to
For art and exercise in your defence
For bearers of this greeting to old Norway;
For beauty starved with her severity
Forbidden bandying in Verona streets:
For blood of ours, shed blood of Montague.
For bonny sweet Robin is all my joy.
For, by my soul, I'll ne'er acknowledge thee,
For, by the image of my cause, I see
For, by your leaves, you shall not stay alone
force of honesty can translate beauty into his
Fordo its own life: 'twas of some estate.
For England.
forestall their repair hither, and say you are not
For even the day before, she broke her brow:
For every man has business and desire,
For exile hath more terror in his look,
For fair without the fair within to hide:
For fear of that, I still will stay with thee;
For food and diet, to some enterprise
Forgetting any other home but this.
Forgive me, cousin! Ah, dear Juliet,
For goodness, growing to a plurisy,
For good Polonius' death; and we have done but greenly,
For, hark you, Tybalt being slain so late,
For Hecuba!
For he hath still been tried a holy man.
For he himself is subject to his birth:
For here lies Juliet, and her beauty makes
For here we need it not.
For her perfections: but my revenge will come.
For he was likely, had he been put on,
For husband shalt thou--
For I am proverb'd with a grandsire phrase;
For, I am sure, you have your hands full all,
For I come hither arm'd against myself:
For if the king like not the comedy,
For I had then laid wormwood to my dug,
For I have need of many orisons
For I mine eyes will rivet to his face,
For in a minute there are many days:
For I ne'er saw true beauty till this night.
For in that sleep of death what dreams may come
For in the fatness of these pursy times
for in the very torrent, tempest, and, as I may say,
For it excels your first: or if it did not,
For it is, as the air, invulnerable,
For it was bad enough before their spite.
for I was come to the whole depth of my tale; and
For I will raise her statue in pure gold;
For Juliet's sake, for her sake, rise and stand;
For like the hectic in my blood he rages,
For loan oft loses both itself and friend,
For men so old as we to keep the peace.
For me, with sorrow I embrace my fortune:
Form of the thing, each word made true and good,
For murder, though it have no tongue, will speak
For nature, crescent, does not grow alone
For never was a story of more woe
For nothing can be ill, if she be well.
For nought so vile that on the earth doth live
For now, these hot days, is the mad blood stirring.
For out o' doors he went without their helps,
For saints have hands that pilgrims' hands do touch,
For shame, bring Juliet forth; her lord is come.
For so he said he would: I hear him near.
For some must watch, while some must sleep:
For so this side of our known world esteem'd him--
For still thy eyes, which I may call the sea,
For stony limits cannot hold love out,
For such a guest is meet.
For such a wish! he was not born to shame:
For sweet discourses in our time to come.
For that which thou hast done,--must send thee hence
For that which thou hast heard me speak to-night
Forth at your eyes your spirits wildly peep;
For the apparel oft proclaims the man,
For the demand of our neglected tribute
for the most part are capable of nothing but
For then, I hope, thou wilt not keep him long,
For then she could stand alone; nay, by the rood,
For then thou canst not pass to Mantua;
for there be of them that will themselves laugh, to
For the supply and profit of our hope,
For they are actions that a man might play:
For this alliance may so happy prove,
For this, being smelt, with that part cheers each part;
for this drivelling love is like a great natural,
For this effect defective comes by cause:
For this night's watching.
For this time, all the rest depart away:
For thou dost know, O Damon dear,
For though fond nature bids us an lament,
For, though I am not splenitive and rash,
For thou wilt lie upon the wings of night
For 'tis a question left us yet to prove,
For 'tis a throne where honour may be crown'd
For 'tis the sport to have the engineer
For 'twas your heaven she should be advanced:
for't. What players are they?
For use almost can change the stamp of nature,
For Venus smiles not in a house of tears.
Forward, not permanent, sweet, not lasting,
For we have closely sent for Hamlet hither,
For, well you know, this is a pitiful case.
For we will fetters put upon this fear,
For what advancement may I hope from thee
For what, I pray thee?
For what we know must be and is as common
For which, they say, you spirits oft walk in death,
For who is living, if those two are gone?
For whom, and not for Tybalt, Juliet pined.
For who not needs shall never lack a friend,
For whose dear sake thou wast but lately dead;
For who, that's but a queen, fair, sober, wise,
For who would bear the whips and scorns of time,
For women's fear and love holds quantity;
for you; and here's some for me: we may call it
For you and I are past our dancing days:
for you. It is 'music with her silver sound,'
For your broken shin.
For your desire to know what is between us,
Free me so far in your most generous thoughts,
Friend, look to 't.
Friends both, go join you with some further aid:
friend! thy face is valenced since I saw thee last:
From ancient grudge break to new mutiny,
From another one?
From fashion of himself. What think you on't?
From forth day's path and Titan's fiery wheels:
From forth the fatal loins of these two foes
From love's weak childish bow she lives unharm'd.
From me, whose love was of that dignity
From off the battlements of yonder tower;
From our achievements, though perform'd at height,
From that particular fault: the dram of eale
From the fair forehead of an innocent love
From the first corse till he that died to-day,
from the purpose of playing, whose end, both at the
From this world-wearied flesh. Eyes, look your last!
From whence though willingly I came to Denmark,
Full half an hour.
Full soon the canker death eats up that plant.
gaffs his kibe. How long hast thou been a
gain-giving, as would perhaps trouble a woman.
Gallop apace, you fiery-footed steeds,
gallows is built stronger than the church: argal,
gambols? your songs? your flashes of merriment,
gentleman but gardeners, ditchers, and grave-makers:
Gentlemen, for shame, forbear this outrage!
Gentlemen, good den: a word with one of you.
Gentle Mercutio, put thy rapier up.
Get from him why he puts on this confusion,
Get me an iron crow, and bring it straight
gets the love of Gonzago's wife.
Get thee to bed, and rest; for thou hast need.
Get you a place.
Get you to bed; faith, You'll be sick to-morrow
gifts: she seems loath and unwilling awhile, but
Give every man thy ear, but few thy voice;
Give it an understanding, but no tongue:
Give me a case to put my visage in:
Give me a torch: I am not for this ambling;
Give me, give me! O, tell not me of fear!
Give me my father!
Give me my Romeo; and, when he shall die,
Give me my sin again.
Give me one poor request.
Give me some present counsel, or, behold,
Give me that mattock and the wrenching iron.
Give me the cup: let go; by heaven, I'll have't.
Give me the letter; I will look on it.
Give me the light: upon thy life, I charge thee,
Give me those flowers. Do as I bid thee, go.
Give me thy hand; 'tis late: farewell; good night.
Give me thy torch, boy: hence, and stand aloof:
Given private time to you; and you yourself
Gives him three thousand crowns in annual fee,
Gives me superfluous death.
Give us the foils. Come on.
Give you good night.
Giving more light than heat, extinct in both,
Giving to you no further personal power
gleaned, it is but squeezing you, and, sponge, you
Go ask his name: if he be married.
Go before, nurse: commend me to thy lady;
Go, be gone.
Go, bid the soldiers shoot.
God bless you, sir!
God forbid! Where's this girl? What, Juliet!
God ha' mercy on his soul!
God join'd my heart and Romeo's, thou our hands;
god kissing carrion,--Have you a daughter?
God Pardon him! I do, with all my heart;
God save the mark!--here on his manly breast:
God's bread! it makes me mad:
God shield I should disturb devotion!
God willing, shall not lack. Let us go in together;
God ye good den, fair gentlewoman.
goes,--mark you that; but if the water come to him
Goes slow and stately by them: thrice he walk'd
Go, get thee hence, for I will not away.
Go, get thee to thy love, as was decreed,
Go hence, to have more talk of these sad things;
Go; I'll to dinner: hie you to the cell.
Go in: and tell my lady I am gone,
Go, nurse, go with her: we'll to church to-morrow.
good discretion.
Good even to my ghostly confessor.
Good father, I beseech you on my knees,
Good gentlemen, give him a further edge,
Good gentle youth, tempt not a desperate man;
Good Gertrude, set some watch over your son.
Good heart, at what?
Good king of cats, nothing but one of your nine
Good-morrow, cousin.
Good morrow, father.
Good morrow to you both. What counterfeit did I give you?
Good my lord, will you see the players well
Good night.
Good night: but go not to mine uncle's bed;
good night, good night.
Good night, good night! as sweet repose and rest
Good night, good night! parting is such
Good night, mother.
Good Peter, to hide her face; for her fan's the
Good pilgrim, you do wrong your hand too much,
Good prudence; smatter with your gossips, go.
good quarrel, and the law on my side.
Go on; I'll follow thee.
goose-quills and dare scarce come thither.
Gorged with the dearest morsel of the earth,
Go seek him out; speak fair, and bring the body
Go, sirrah, trudge about
Go, some of you, whoe'er you find attach.
Go, tell the prince: run to the Capulets:
Go thither; and, with unattainted eye,
Go thou to Juliet, help to deck up her;
go to bed.
Go to, go to;
Go to; I say you shall.
Go to their graves like beds, fight for a plot
Go to thy death-bed:
Go to your rest; at night we'll feast together:
Go waken Juliet, go and trim her up;
Go you to Juliet ere you go to bed,
grandsire, that we should be thus afflicted with
Grapple them to thy soul with hoops of steel;
Grating so harshly all his days of quiet
grave-maker?
grave-maker: 'the houses that he makes last till
grave's this, sirrah?
Graze where you will you shall not house with me:
great article; and his infusion of such dearth and
great folk should have countenance in this world to
great rich Capulet; and if you be not of the house
great wager on your head: sir, this is the matter,--
Green earthen pots, bladders and musty seeds,
Gregory, o' my word, we'll not carry coals.
Grief joys, joy grieves, on slender accident.
Grief of my son's exile hath stopp'd her breath:
Griefs of mine own lie heavy in my breast,
Groan! why, no.
Groped I to find out them; had my desire.
Grows wide withal. Perhaps he loves you now,
Guildenstern? Ah, Rosencrantz! Good lads, how do ye both?
Ha!
Ha, banishment! be merciful, say 'death;'
Had he been vanquisher; as, by the same covenant,
Had he the motive and the cue for passion
Had I but time--as this fell sergeant, death,
Had I it written, I would tear the word.
Had it the ability of life to thank you:
Had left the flushing in her galled eyes,
Had made his course to illume that part of heaven
Had part in this fair maid; now heaven hath all,
Had she affections and warm youthful blood,
hadst been poor John. Draw thy tool! here comes
Hadst thou no poison mix'd, no sharp-ground knife,
Had witchcraft in't; he grew unto his seat;
hai!
Ha! let me see her: out, alas! she's cold:
Hamlet comes back: what would you undertake,
Hamlet in madness hath Polonius slain,
Hamlet is of the faction that is wrong'd;
Hamlet return'd shall know you are come home:
Hamlet the Dane.
hands and they unwashed too, 'tis a foul thing.
Hang thee, young baggage! disobedient wretch!
Haply some poison yet doth hang on them,
Haply the seas and countries different
Happily met, my lady and my wife!
Happiness courts thee in her best array;
Hark ye, your Romeo will be here at night:
harmony; I have not the skill.
has given you one face, and you make yourselves
Hast ta'en with equal thanks: and blest are those
Hast thou met with him? Send thy man away.
Hast thou no letters to me from the friar?
Hast thou slain Tybalt? wilt thou slay thyself?
Hath been my kinsman! O sweet Juliet,
Hath claw'd me in his clutch,
Hath Death lain with thy wife. There she lies,
Hath given me this: now gather, and surmise.
Hath had no notice of these accidents;
Hath had no power yet upon thy beauty:
Hath in the skirts of Norway here and there
Hath not so green, so quick, so fair an eye
Hath now this dread and black complexion smear'd
Hath oped his ponderous and marble jaws,
Hath Romeo slain himself? say thou but 'I,'
Hath seal'd thee for herself; for thou hast been
Hath sent a letter to his father's house.
Hath slain ten thousand Tybalts. Tybalt's death
Hath sorted out a sudden day of joy,
Hath thwarted our intents. Come, come away.
Hath turn'd itself on me lo, here I lie,
Hath wash'd thy sallow cheeks for Rosaline!
Have at thee, coward!
have bad dreams.
have been in continual practise: I shall win at the
Have burst their cerements; why the sepulchre,
Have by the very cunning of the scene
have fought with the men, I will be cruel with the
Have heaven and earth together demonstrated
Have I thought long to see this morning's face,
Have lost a brace of kinsmen: all are punish'd.
have many pocky corses now-a-days, that will scarce
Have my old feet stumbled at graves! Who's there?
Have not saints lips, and holy palmers too?
Have of your audience been most free and bounteous:
have the letters I have sent; and repair thou to me
Have they been merry! which their keepers call
Have thrice disturb'd the quiet of our streets,
Have we, as 'twere with a defeated joy,--
have words to speak in thine ear will make thee
Have you deliver'd to her our decree?
Have you importuned him by any means?
Have you so slander any moment leisure,
Having displeased my father, to Laurence' cell,
Having ever seen in the prenominate crimes
Having some business, do entreat her eyes
Hazard so dangerous as doth hourly grow
hearer: that great baby you see there is not yet
Hear me with patience but to speak a word.
heart is full of woe:' O, play me some merry dump,
He bears him like a portly gentleman;
He came with flowers to strew his lady's grave;
He closes thus: 'I know the gentleman;
He closes with you in this consequence;
He does well to commend it himself; there are no
He falls to such perusal of my face
He hath not fail'd to pester us with message,
He heareth not, he stirreth not, he moveth not;
He is dead and gone;
He is dead and gone, lady,
He is gone, he is gone,
He is wise;
He jests at scars that never felt a wound.
Helen and Hero hildings and harlots; Thisbe a grey
He lent me counsel and I lent him eyes.
He likewise gives a frock or livery,
He'll fright you up, i' faith. Will it not be?
Help, help! Call help.
Help, help, ho!
Help me into some house, Benvolio,
He made you for a highway to my bed;
He may approve our eyes and speak to it.
He may not, as unvalued persons do,
Hence-banished is banish'd from the world,
Henceforth I never will be Romeo.
Henceforward do your messages yourself.
Henceforward I am ever ruled by you.
hence to wait; I beseech you, follow straight.
Hence will I to my ghostly father's cell,
He never gave commandment for their death.
He never will come again.
He raised a sigh so piteous and profound
He ran this way, and leap'd this orchard wall:
herb-grace o' Sundays: O you must wear your rue with
Her blood is settled, and her joints are stiff;
Her body sleeps in Capel's monument,
Her brother is in secret come from France;
Her chariot is an empty hazel-nut
Here are the beetle brows shall blush for me.
Here, as before, never, so help you mercy,
Here comes Romeo, here comes Romeo.
Here comes the furious Tybalt back again.
Here comes the lady: O, so light a foot
Here, Hamlet, take my napkin, rub thy brows;
Here in my house do him disparagement:
Here, in the cheer and comfort of our eye,
Here in the churchyard; yet I will adventure.
Here in the lobby.
Here in this city visiting the sick,
Here in Verona, ladies of esteem,
Here is your husband; like a mildew'd ear,
here lies the point:  if I drown myself wittingly,
Here lives a caitiff wretch would sell it him.'
Here's a skull now; this skull has lain in the earth
here's fine revolution, an we had the trick to
Here's goodly gear!
Here's much to do with hate, but more with love.
Here's one, a friend, and one that knows you well.
Here's such a coil! come, what says Romeo?
Here's to my love!
Here stooping to your clemency,
Here's to thy health.
Here's yet some liquor left.
Here was a gentleman of Normandy:--
Here were the servants of your adversary,
Her eye discourses; I will answer it.
Her father and myself, lawful espials,
her favours?
Her maiden strewments and the bringing home
Her mood will needs be pitied.
Her mother is the lady of the house,
Her nurse is privy: and, if aught in this
her paint an inch thick, to this favour she must
Herself poised with herself in either eye:
herself wittingly.
Her vestal livery is but sick and green
Her wagoner a small grey-coated gnat,
Her wagon-spokes made of long spiders' legs,
Her whip of cricket's bone, the lash of film,
He seem'd to find his way without his eyes;
He shall be endured:
He shall not make me there a joyful bride.
He should the bearers put to sudden death,
He's loved of the distracted multitude,
He smote the sledded Polacks on the ice.
He swore, had had neither motion, guard, nor eye,
He swung about his head and cut the winds,
He tells me, my dear Gertrude, he hath found
He that hath kill'd my king and whored my mother,
He that is strucken blind cannot forget
He told me Paris should have married Juliet:
He took my father grossly, full of bread;
he will keep out water a great while; and your water
Hey non nonny, nonny, hey nonny;
Hie to high fortune! Honest nurse, farewell.
Hie you, make haste, for it grows very late.
Hie you to church; I must another way,
High on a stage be placed to the view;
him, his umbrage, nothing more.
him in excellence; but, to know a man well, were to
himself for your succession in Denmark?
Himself the primrose path of dalliance treads,
His access to me.
his action of battery? Hum! This fellow might be
His agile arm beats down their fatal points,
His beard was as white as snow,
His canon 'gainst self-slaughter! O God! God!
his cases, his tenures, and his tricks? why does he
His father's death, and our o'erhasty marriage.
His fault concludes but what the law should end,
His fell to Hamlet. Now, sir, young Fortinbras,
His form and cause conjoin'd, preaching to stones,
His further gait herein; in that the levies,
His greatness weigh'd, his will is not his own;
His help to crave, and my dear hap to tell.
His liberty is full of threats to all;
His looks I fear, and his intents I doubt.
His madness is poor Hamlet's enemy.
His means of death, his obscure funeral--
His nephew's levies; which to him appear'd
his new doublet before Easter? with another, for
his pencil, and the painter with his nets; but I am
his recognizances, his fines, his double vouchers,
his recoveries: is this the fine of his fines, and
His silence will sit drooping.
His son is thirty.
His son was but a ward two years ago.
his tongue,
historical-pastoral, tragical-historical, tragical-
Hist! Romeo, hist! O, for a falconer's voice,
Hoist with his own petard: and 't shall go hard
Holding a weak supposal of our worth,
Holding thine ear close to the hollow ground;
Hold it a fashion and a toy in blood,
Holds such an enmity with blood of man
Hold, take this letter; early in the morning
hold the laying in--he will last you some eight year
Hold, there is forty ducats: let me have
Hold, Tybalt! good Mercutio!
Hold you the watch to-night?
honest method, as wholesome as sweet, and by very
Honour'd, beloved; and haply one as kind
Hood my unmann'd blood, bating in my cheeks,
hope a great man's memory may outlive his life half
Horatio,--or I do forget myself.
Horatio, these three years I have taken a note of
horses: against the which he has imponed, as I take
How all occasions do inform against me,
how art thou fishified! Now is he for the numbers
How art thou out of breath, when thou hast breath
How camest thou hither, tell me, and wherefore?
How canst thou try them so?
How dangerous is it that this man goes loose!
How does my good Lord Hamlet?
How does your honour for this many a day?
How doth my lady? Is my father well?
Howe'er my haps, my joys were ne'er begun.
How fares my Juliet? that I ask again;
How if, when I am laid into the tomb,
how infinite in faculty! in form and moving how
How in my words soever she be shent,
How is't, my soul? let's talk; it is not day.
Howlings attend it: how hast thou the heart,
How long is't now since last yourself and I
How much I had to do to calm his rage!
How much salt water thrown away in waste,
How nice the quarrel was, and urged withal
How now! a conduit, girl? what, still in tears?
How now, how now, chop-logic! What is this?
How now, my headstrong! where have you been gadding?
How now, my lord! I will the king hear this piece of work?
How now, Ophelia! what's the matter?
How now! what hath befall'n?
How now! what news?
How now! who calls?
How oft when men are at the point of death
How pregnant sometimes his replies are! a happiness
How shall that faith return again to earth,
How should I your true love know
How should they, when that wise men have no eyes?
How silver-sweet sound lovers' tongues by night,
How smart a lash that speech doth give my conscience!
How stands your disposition to be married?
How strange or odd soe'er I bear myself,
how the knave jowls it to the ground, as if it were
How these things came about: so shall you hear
how to choose a man: Romeo! no, not he; though his
How to forget that learning, but, sir, now
How! turn thy back and run?
How weary, stale, flat and unprofitable,
How well my comfort is revived by this!
How! will she none? doth she not give us thanks?
hundred ducats a-piece for his picture in little.
Hunting thee hence with hunt's-up to the day,
Hunts not the trail of policy so sure
Hyperion's curls; the front of Jove himself;
Hyperion to a satyr; so loving to my mother
If all else fail, myself have power to die.
If any of my kinsmen find thee here.
If aught of woe or wonder, cease your search.
If by direct or by collateral hand
If circumstances lead me, I will find
If damned custom have not brass'd it so
If e'er thou wast thyself and these woes thine,
If ever you disturb our streets again,
If good, thou shamest the music of sweet news
If Hamlet from himself be ta'en away,
If Hamlet give the first or second hit,
If he be slain, say 'I'; or if not, no:
If he by chance escape your venom'd stuck,
If he steal aught the whilst this play is playing,
If his chief good and market of his time
If I did stay to look on his intents.
If I do so, it will be of more price,
If I had play'd the desk or table-book,
If I may trust the flattering truth of sleep,
If, in thy wisdom, thou canst give no help,
If it be made of penetrable stuff,
If it be so, as so 'tis put on me,
If love be blind, love cannot hit the mark.
If love be rough with you, be rough with love;
If my heart's dear love--
If no inconstant toy, nor womanish fear,
if not, I will gain nothing but my shame and the odd hits.
If, once a widow, ever I be wife!
If one could match you: the scrimers of their nation,
If, rather than to marry County Paris,
If she unmask her beauty to the moon:
If 't be the affliction of his love or no
If that his majesty would aught with us,
If that thy bent of love be honourable,
If there be any good thing to be done,
If they do see thee, they will murder thee.
If this should blast in proof. Soft! let me see:
If thou art dun, we'll draw thee from the mire
If thou art fickle, what dost thou with him.
If thou art privy to thy country's fate,
If thou art taken: hence, be gone, away!
If thou be merciful,
If thou canst mutine in a matron's bones,
If thou didst ever hold me in thy heart
If thou didst ever thy dear father love--
If thou dost love, pronounce it faithfully:
If thou hast any sound, or use of voice,
If thou hast nature in thee, bear it not;
If what thou speak'st speak not of remedy.
If with too credent ear you list his songs,
If you desire to know the certainty
If you do meet Horatio and Marcellus,
If you do, sir, I am for you: I serve as good a man as you.
If you have hitherto conceal'd this sight,
If you opposed them. Sir, this report of his
imagination to give them shape, or time to act them
Immediately we do exile him hence:
Immoderately she weeps for Tybalt's death,
Imperious Caesar, dead and turn'd to clay,
Importing Denmark's health and England's too,
Importing health and graveness. Two months since,
Importing the surrender of those lands
In all her best array bear her to church:
In all respects by me; nay, more, I doubt it not.
in apprehension how like a god! the beauty of the
In bed asleep, while they do dream things true.
In carrion-flies than Romeo: they my seize
In censure of his seeming.
inch narrow to an ell broad!
In dear employment: therefore hence, be gone:
Indeed, I never shall be satisfied
Indeed, I should have ask'd you that before.
indeed, to speak feelingly of him, he is the card or
Indeed would make one think there might be thought,
In Denmark's crown have worn. Give me the cups;
indict the author of affectation; but called it an
In dreadful secrecy impart they did;
In ear and ear. O my dear Gertrude, this,
In equal scale weighing delight and dole,--
inexplicable dumbshows and noise: I would have such
In fair Verona, where we lay our scene,
In faith, I will. Let me peruse this face.
Infects unseen. Confess yourself to heaven;
In filial obligation for some term
In further evil?
In general synod 'take away her power;
In going back to school in Wittenberg,
In half an hour she promised to return.
In herbs, plants, stones, and their true qualities:
Inherit at my house; hear all, all see,
In his true nature; and we ourselves compell'd,
In honourable fashion.
In hugger-mugger to inter him: poor Ophelia
In lasting labour of his pilgrimage!
In love?
In man as well as herbs, grace and rude will;
In mincing with his sword her husband's limbs,
In moral paradise of such sweet flesh?
In my behalf; my reputation stain'd
In my heart's core, ay, in my heart of heart,
In neither aught, or in extremity.
In noise so rude against me?
In obstinate condolement is a course
In one respect I'll thy assistant be;
in our more rawer breath?
in peace; the clown shall make those laugh whose
In penalty alike; and 'tis not hard, I think,
Inquire me first what Danskers are in Paris;
in reputation and profit, was better both ways.
In sadness, cousin, I do love a woman.
In second husband let me be accurst!
In shape no bigger than an agate-stone
in's time a great buyer of land, with his statutes,
instrument you will, though you can fret me, yet you
In such a gorgeous palace!
In tatter'd weeds, with overwhelming brows,
In that dim monument where Tybalt lies.
in that. I will speak to this fellow. Whose
In that word's death; no words can that woe sound.
in the city? are they so followed?
In the corrupted currents of this world
In the dead vast and middle of the night,
In thee at once; which thou at once wouldst lose.
In thee there is not half an hour of life;
in the fool that uses it. Go, make you ready.
In the mean time, against thou shalt awake,
In the most high and palmy state of Rome,
In the rank sweat of an enseamed bed,
In these confusions. Heaven and yourself
In thews and bulk, but, as this temple waxes,
In this distracted globe. Remember thee!
In this resolve: I'll send a friar with speed
In this so sudden business.
In thy best robes uncover'd on the bier
into amazement and admiration.
Into a towering passion.
Into the chapel. I pray you, haste in this.
Into the madness wherein now he raves,
In truth, fair Montague, I am too fond,
in 't. Will you walk out of the air, my lord?
In what I further shall intend to do,
in. What should such fellows as I do crawling
In what vile part of this anatomy
In which the majesty of buried Denmark
In youth, when I did love, did love,
is a nobleman in town, one Paris, that would fain
Is apoplex'd; for madness would not err,
is a sore decayer of your whoreson dead body.
is a strumpet. What's the news?
Is but a little way above our heads,
Is but to whet thy almost blunted purpose.
Is by a forged process of my death
Is crimson in thy lips and in thy cheeks,
Is death mis-term'd: calling death banishment,
Is death of fathers, and who still hath cried,
Is death to any he that utters them.
Is empty on the back of Montague,--
Is fair and honest, and in his mistress' name
Is father, mother, Tybalt, Romeo, Juliet,
Is guilty of this lamentable chance!
Is he gone, and hath nothing?
Is it e'en so? why, then, I thank you all
Is it even so? then I defy you, stars!
Is it more sin to wish me thus forsworn,
Is it not monstrous that this player here,
Is it the king?
Is loathsome in his own deliciousness
Is longer than the tale thou dost excuse.
Is love a tender thing? it is too rough,
is mad, and sent into England.
Is my dear son with such sour company:
Is my poor heart for a kinsman vex'd.
Is not more ugly to the thing that helps it
Is not so long as is a tedious tale.
Is not this something more than fantasy?
Is not to stir without great argument,
Is now most still, most secret and most grave,
Is now the two hours' traffic of our stage;
Is partly to behold my lady's face;
Is Romeo slaughter'd, and is Tybalt dead?
Is Rosaline, whom thou didst love so dear,
Is set afire by thine own ignorance,
Is she a Capulet?
Is she not down so late, or up so early?
Is she not proud? doth she not count her blest,
Is sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought,
is something musty.
Is strict in his arrest--O, I could tell you--
Is the day so young?
Is the great love the general gender bear him;
is the image of a murder done in Vienna: Gonzago is
Is the main motive of our preparations,
Is there no pity sitting in the clouds,
is there no sequel at the heels of this mother's
Is there not rain enough in the sweet heavens
Is this the poultice for my aching bones?
Is thought-sick at the act.
Is three long hours, yet she is not come.
Is thy news good, or bad? answer to that;
is, to act, to do, to perform: argal, she drowned
Is to himself--I will not say how true--
Is too much for a score,
Is very cunning in.
Is very good meat in lent
is worn, the jest may remain after the wearing sole singular.
is young; and, therefore, if you should deal double
it, and others, whose judgments in such matters
it argues an act: and an act hath three branches: it
It back to Tybalt, whose dexterity,
It beats as it would fall in twenty pieces.
It best agrees with night. Come, civil night,
It burneth in the Capel's monument.
It cannot countervail the exchange of joy
It could not move thus.
It did me yeoman's service: wilt thou know
It doth so, holy sir; and there's my master,
It fits, when such a villain is a guest:
It fits your wisdom so far to believe it
It had been so with us, had we been there:
It hath the primal eldest curse upon't,
It helps not, it prevails not: talk no more.
it. Here hung those lips that I have kissed I know
it: I loved you not.
It is a damned ghost that we have seen,
It is 'Adieu, adieu! remember me.'
It is an honest ghost, that let me tell you:
It is an honour that I dream not of.
It is a poison temper'd by himself.
it is a prison.
It is enough I may but call her mine.
It is, it is: hie hence, be gone, away!
It is most retrograde to our desire:
It is my lady, O, it is my love!
It is my soul that calls upon my name:
It is my will, the which if thou respect,
It is not nor it cannot come to good:
it is not so:--it begins with Pyrrhus:--
It is our trick; nature her custom holds,
It is some meteor that the sun exhales,
It is supposed, the fair creature died;
It is the east, and Juliet is the sun.
It is the lark that sings so out of tune,
It is too rash, too unadvised, too sudden;
It lifted up its head and did address
It may be death.
It may be so, for it is not mine own.
It may be thought we held him carelessly,
it, of you and rosemary, that it would do you good
it on the drawer, when indeed there is no need.
It rains downright.
It seems she hangs upon the cheek of night
Itself to motion, like as it would speak;
It sends some precious instance of itself
It shall as level to your judgment pierce
It shall be Romeo, whom you know I hate,
It shows a will most incorrect to heaven,
it, six French rapiers and poniards, with their
It spills itself in fearing to be spilt.
It strains me past the compass of my wits:
it; the age is grown so picked that the toe of the
It warms the very sickness in my heart,
It was against your highness: whereat grieved,
It was the lark, the herald of the morn,
It was the nightingale, and not the lark,
It was. What sadness lengthens Romeo's hours?
It waves me forth again: I'll follow it.
It waves you to a more removed ground:
It were a grief, so brief to part with thee: Farewell.
It will be laid to us, whose providence
It will but skin and film the ulcerous place,
it would not much approve me. Well, sir?
Jacks; and if I cannot, I'll find those that shall.
Jesu Maria, what a deal of brine
Juliet, on Thursday early will I rouse ye:
Juliet, the county stays.
Just in her case! O woful sympathy!
Just opposite to what thou justly seem'st,
keep counsel; they'll tell all.
Keeps wassail, and the swaggering up-spring reels;
ke John-a-dreams, unpregnant of my cause,
Killing that love which thou hast vow'd to cherish;
kind of behavior, as they say: for the gentlewoman
king, and cat of the fish that hath fed of that worm.
king best service in the end: he keeps them, like
King, father, royal Dane: O, answer me!
king hold his purpose, I will win for him an I can;
kitchen-wench; marry, she had a better love to
knocked about the mazzard with a sexton's spade:
know him. He hath much land, and fertile: let a
know himself.
know the dressy age dotes on--only got the tune of
lady and mistress! By'r lady, your ladyship is
Lady, by yonder blessed moon I swear
laid on him by them, in his meed he's unfellowed.
Larded with many several sorts of reasons
Larded with sweet flowers
Last, and as much containing as all these,
late innovation.
laugh, cannot but make the judicious grieve; the
lawyer? Where be his quiddities now, his quillets,
lay knife aboard; but she, good soul, had as lief
Lay not that mattering unction to your soul,
Leap to these arms, untalk'd of and unseen.
leave him, and suddenly contrive the means of
Leave me, and do the thing I bid thee do.
Leave me, friends.
leaves him. Anon comes in a fellow, takes off his
leaves, what is't to leave betimes?
Leave wringing of your hands: peace! sit you down,
Led by a delicate and tender prince,
Lends the tongue vows: these blazes, daughter,
lenten entertainment the players shall receive from
Lest in this marriage he should be dishonour'd,
lest my extent to the players, which, I tell you,
Lest that thy love prove likewise variable.
Lest with this piteous action you convert
Let all the battlements their ordnance fire:
Let come what comes; only I'll be revenged
Let Hercules himself do what he may,
Let him go, Gertrude; do not fear our person:
Let his queen mother all alone entreat him
Let in the maid, that out a maid
Let it be tenable in your silence still;
Let me be cruel, not unnatural:
Let me be no assistant for a state,
Let me be satisfied, is't good or bad?
Let me be ta'en, let me be put to death;
Let me not burst in ignorance; but tell
Let me not think on't--Frailty, thy name is woman!--
Let me question more in particular: what have you,
Let me stand here till thou remember it.
Let my disclaiming from a purposed evil
Let not the royal bed of Denmark be
Let not thy nurse lie with thee in thy chamber:
Let shame say what it will: when these are gone,
Let's see for means: O mischief, thou art swift
letter:--and she hath the prettiest sententious of
Let the birds fly, and, like the famous ape,
Let the bloat king tempt you again to bed;
Let them affright thee. I beseech thee, youth,
let to know it is.
Let two more summers wither in their pride,
Let us impart what we have seen to-night
Let us take the law of our sides; let them begin.
liberal-conceited carriages; that's the French bet
liberty, these are the only men.
Lies festering in his shroud; where, as they say,
Lies my consent and fair according voice.
Life and these lips have long been separated:
Lifts me above the ground with cheerful thoughts.
Like a good child and a true gentleman.
Like a poor prisoner in his twisted gyves,
Like a rich jewel in an Ethiope's ear;
Like damned guilty deeds to sinners' minds:
Like death, when he shuts up the day of life;
likeness: this was sometime a paradox, but now the
Like Niobe, all tears:--why she, even she--
Like powder in a skitless soldier's flask,
Like quills upon the fretful porpentine:
Like softest music to attending ears!
Like sweet bells jangled, out of tune and harsh;
Like to a murdering-piece, in many places
Like wonder-wounded hearers? This is I,
Live, and be prosperous: and farewell, good fellow.
Live here in heaven and may look on her;
Lives almost by his looks; and for myself--
lives; that I mean to make bold withal, and as you
live; the rest shall keep as they are. To a
Lo, here upon thy cheek the stain doth sit
longer than they can sing? will they not say
Look, and thou shalt see.
Looking before and after, gave us not
Look, sir, here comes the lady towards my cell.
Look to the baked meats, good Angelica:
Look to't, I charge you: come your ways.
Look to't, think on't, I do not use to jest.
Look, where he goes, even now, out at e portal!
Look you, I'll go pray.
Look you, she loved her kinsman Tybalt dearly,
Look you, these are the stops.
Lord Hamlet, with his doublet all unbraced;
lord, I will most humbly take my leave of you.
Lord, Lord, she will be a joyful woman.
Lords, Ladies, Officers, Soldiers, Sailors, Messengers,
Lord! when 'twas a little prating thing:--O, there
Lost by his father, with all bonds of law,
love, and by what more dear a better proposer could
Love give me strength! and strength shall help afford.
Love goes toward love, as schoolboys from
Love is a smoke raised with the fume of sighs;
love me, hold not off.
love, remember: and there is pansies. that's for thoughts.
Lovers can see to do their amorous rites
love-song; the very pin of his heart cleft with the
love; very near this. I'll speak to him again.
lungs are tickled o' the sere; and the lady shall
Madam, an hour before the worshipp'd sun
Madam, good night: commend me to your daughter.
Madam, I am here.
Madam, I am not well.
Madam, if you could find out but a man
Madam, in happy time, what day is that?
Mad call I it; for, to define true madness,
Made by the joiner squirrel or old grub,
made me mad. I say, we will have no more marriages:
Mad let us grant him, then: and now remains
Madness in great ones must not unwatch'd go.
maggots: your fat king and your lean beggar is but
maids, and cut off their heads.
Maintains such falsehood, then turn tears to fires;
majesty bade me signify to you that he has laid a
majesty, 'tis the breathing time of day with me; let
Make choice of whom your wisest friends you will.
Make haste, I say.
Make haste, make haste.
Make haste; the bridegroom he is come already:
Make mad the guilty and appal the free,
Make Ossa like a wart! Nay, an thou'lt mouth,
Makes mouths at the invisible event,
Makes my flesh tremble in their different greeting.
Makes us traduced and tax'd of other nations:
Makes vow before his uncle never more
Make thy two eyes, like stars, start from their spheres,
Make up my sum. What wilt thou do for her?
Make us again count o'er ere love be done!
make you dance. 'Zounds, consort!
Make you to ravel all this matter out,
Making night hideous; and we fools of nature
Making them women of good carriage:
man; but, I'll warrant you, when I say so, she looks
man for coughing in the street, because he hath
man, I am most dreadfully attended. But, in the
Many a morning hath he there been seen,
Many for many virtues excellent,
mar.
Marcellus and Bernardo, on their watch,
mark it. You say right, sir: o' Monday morning;
Mark the encounter: if he love her not
Marry, and amen, how sound is she asleep!
Marry, go before to field, he'll be your follower;
marry, marry a fool; for wise men know well enough
mason, the shipwright, or the carpenter?
Mass, and well said; a merry whoreson, ha!
May be put from her by society:
May be the devil: and the devil hath power
May do much danger. Friar John, go hence;
May do, to express his love and friending to you,
may find the young Romeo?
May fit us to our shape: if this should fail,
May give his saying deed; which is no further
May one be pardon'd and retain the offence?
May prove a beauteous flower when next we meet.
May stand in number, though in reckoning none,
May sweep to my revenge.
May violets spring! I tell thee, churlish priest,
me, an absolute gentleman, full of most excellent
Meaning, to court'sy.
Meaning to keep her closely at my cell,
Meantime we thank you for your well-took labour:
meant, indeed, to occupy the argument no longer.
me a piece of marchpane; and, as thou lovest me, let
meat, and yet thy head hath been beaten as addle as
meeting between him and my daughter.--My honourable
Meet what I would have well and it destroy!
me like men:
me like thieves of mercy: but they knew what they
me: no, nor woman neither, though by your smiling
Men's eyes were made to look, and let them gaze;
me one thing.
me quivers. Scurvy knave! Pray you, sir, a word:
merchant was this, that was so full of his ropery?
Mercutio's kinsman, noble County Paris!
Mercutio, thou consort'st with Romeo,--
Mercy but murders, pardoning those that kill.
me than a foul and pestilent congregation of vapours.
Me they shall feel while I am able to stand: and
Methinks I see thee, now thou art below,
Methought it was very sweet,
me to-morrow, and you shall find me a grave man. I
me to the top of my bent. I will come by and by.
me! You would play upon me; you would seem to know
might be the pate of a politician, which this ass
Might, by the sovereign power you have of us,
might it not?
Might stop a hole to keep the wind away:
Millions of acres on us, till our ground,
Mine and my father's death come not upon thee,
mirror up to nature; to show virtue her own feature,
Miscarried by my fault, let my old life
Mis-shapen chaos of well-seeming forms!
Misshapen in the conduct of them both,
Mist-like, infold me from the search of eyes.
modesty as cunning. I remember, one said there
modesty enough, and likelihood to lead it: as
Monday! ha, ha! Well, Wednesday is too soon,
Monday, my lord,
Montague's men from the wall, and thrust his maids
months ago, and not forgotten yet? Then there's
more, but to the matter: my mother, you say,--
more choler.
More fierce and more inexorable far
more; for look, where my abridgement comes.
More grief to hide than hate to utter love.
More honourable state, more courtship lives
More honour'd in the breach than the observance.
More light and light; more dark and dark our woes!
More light, you knaves; and turn the tables up,
Moreover that we much did long to see you,
More relative than this: the play 's the thing
More than his father's death, that thus hath put him
More than in words?
More than prince of cats, I can tell you. O, he is
More torches here! Come on then, let's to bed.
more willingly part withal: except my life, except
Most detestable death, by thee beguil'd,
Most free in his reply.
Most generous and free from all contriving,
Most holy and religious fear it is
Most lamentable day, most woful day,
Most lazar-like, with vile and loathsome crust,
Most miserable hour that e'er time saw
Most necessary 'tis that we forget
Most thoroughly for my father.
Most welcome home!
Mother, good night. Indeed this counsellor
mother looks, and my father died within these two hours.
mourners, and stay dinner.
mouth, and it will discourse most eloquent music.
move
Move them no more by crossing their high will.
Much heat and him. I'll sconce me even here.
much more handsome than fine. One speech in it I
Much more than death: do not say 'banishment.'
Murder'd her kinsman. O, tell me, friar, tell me,
Murder of Gonzago?
Musicians, O, musicians, 'Heart's ease, Heart's
Must be my convoy in the secret night.
Must climb a bird's nest soon when it is dark:
Must give us pause: there's the respect
Must, like a whore, unpack my heart with words,
Must remember? why, she would hang on him,
Must render up myself.
must show fairly outward, should more appear like
My back o' t' other side,--O, my back, my back!
my beck than I have thoughts to put them in,
My blood for your rude brawls doth lie a-bleeding;
My bosom's lord sits lightly in his throne;
My bounty is as boundless as the sea,
My child is yet a stranger in the world;
My conceal'd lady to our cancell'd love?
My crown, mine own ambition and my queen.
My custom always of the afternoon,
My daughter he hath wedded: I will die,
My dear-loved cousin, and my dearer lord?
My dismal scene I needs must act alone.
My dreams presage some joyful news at hand:
My ears have not yet drunk a hundred words
my errand;
My father Capulet will have it so;
My father, in his habit as he lived!
my father lived, give twenty, forty, fifty, an
My father!--methinks I see my father.
My father's brother, but no more like my father
My father's spirit in arms! all is not well;
My fault is past. But, O, what form of prayer
My fears forgetting manners, to unseal
My fingers itch. Wife, we scarce thought us blest
my good friends, deserved at the hands of fortune,
My good friends, I'll leave you till night: you are
My grave is like to be my wedding bed.
My head should be struck off.
My house and welcome on their pleasure stay.
My husband is on earth, my faith in heaven;
My husband lives, that Tybalt would have slain;
My intercession likewise steads my foe.
My liege, and madam, to expostulate
my life, except my life.
My life were better ended by their hate,
My lips, two blushing pilgrims, ready stand
My lord and you were then at Mantua:--
My lord, I'll tell my lady you will come.
My lord, I would that Thursday were to-morrow.
My lord, not I.
My lord, we must entreat the time alone.
My lord, you played once i' the university, you say?
My love as deep; the more I give to thee,
My master knows not but I am gone hence;
My naked weapon is out: quarrel, I will back thee.
My name, dear saint, is hateful to myself,
My news shall be the fruit to that great feast.
My noble uncle, do you know the cause?
My only love sprung from my only hate!
My operant powers their functions leave to do:
My pulse, as yours, doth temperately keep time,
My sea-gown scarf'd about me, in the dark
myself a king of infinite space, were it not that I
Myself condemned and myself excused.
My soul is full of discord and dismay.
My spirits grow dull, and fain I would beguile
My stern effects: then what I have to do
mystery; you would sound me from my lowest note to
my stops; you would pluck out the heart of my
My stronger guilt defeats my strong intent;
My sword, I say! Old Montague is come,
My tables,--meet it is I set it down,
My thoughts and wishes bend again toward France
My thoughts be bloody, or be nothing worth!
My tongue and soul in this be hypocrites;
My too much changed son. Go, some of you,
My true love's passion: therefore pardon me,
My very friend, hath got his mortal hurt
My virtue or my plague, be it either which--
My will to her consent is but a part;
My words would bandy her to my sweet love,
name's Gonzago: the story is extant, and writ in
narrow for your mind.
natural, if philosophy could find it out.
Nature is fine in love, and where 'tis fine,
nature's journeymen had made men and not made them
Nay, an there were two such, we should have none
Nay, as they dare. I will bite my thumb at them;
Nay, come, I pray thee, speak; good, good nurse, speak.
Nay, come, let's go together.
Nay, gentlemen, prepare not to be gone;
Nay, gentle Romeo, we must have you dance.
Nay, good goose, bite not.
Nay, he will answer the letter's master, how he
Nay, I am the very pink of courtesy.
Nay, I do bear a brain:--but, as I said,
Nay, if thy wits run the wild-goose chase, I have
Nay, I'll conjure too.
Nay, sit, nay, sit, good cousin Capulet;
Nay, that's not so.
nearer to heaven than when I saw you last, by the
Need and oppression starveth in thine eyes,
Ne'er saw her match since first the world begun.
Neither a borrower nor a lender be;
Neither, fair saint, if either thee dislike.
neither, in respect of his quick sail. But, in the
Neptune's salt wash and Tellus' orbed ground,
never acted; or, if it was, not above once; for the
Never departed more.
Never to rise again: thy mother's poison'd:
Never to speak of this that you have heard,
Never was seen so black a day as this:
New-lighted on a heaven-kissing hill;
News from Verona!--How now, Balthasar!
Next, your son gone; and he most violent author
nick-name God's creatures, and make your wantonness
nieces; Mercutio and his brother Valentine; mine
Nightly shall be to strew thy grave and weep.
Nightly she sings on yon pomegranate-tree:
Night's candles are burnt out, and jocund day
No!
No.
No better.
No better term than this,--thou art a villain.
No, coz, I rather weep.
No fairy takes, nor witch hath power to charm,
No faith, no honesty in men; all perjured,
No, for then we should be colliers.
No hare, sir; unless a hare, sir, in a lenten pie,
No hat upon his head; his stockings foul'd,
No, in despite of sense and secrecy,
No jocund health that Denmark drinks to-day,
No, let the candied tongue lick absurd pomp,
No, madam; we have cull'd such necessaries
No, marry; I fear thee!
No medicine in the world can do thee good;
No money, on my faith, but the gleek;
No more; and by a sleep to say we end
no more of his purchases, and double ones too, than
No more, sweet Hamlet!
No more to undertake it, I will work him
No, my good lord.
None but for some and yet all different.
none of his skains-mates. And thou must stand by
None wed the second but who kill'd the first.
No nightingale: look, love, what envious streaks
No noble rite nor formal ostentation--
No, no: but all this did I know before.
No, no, he is dead:
No, nor the fruitful river in the eye,
No, not a whit: what! I have watch'd ere now
No, no: this shall forbid it: lie thou there.
No, not to stay the grinding of the axe,
Nor any unproportioned thought his act.
Nor arm, nor face, nor any other part
Nor aught so good but strain'd from that fair use
Nor bide the encounter of assailing eyes,
Nor customary suits of solemn black,
No reckoning made, but sent to my account
Nor get a messenger to bring it thee,
Nor no without-book prologue, faintly spoke
Nor ope her lap to saint-seducing gold:
Nor sense to ecstasy was ne'er so thrall'd
Nor shall you do mine ear that violence,
Nor tears nor prayers shall purchase out abuses:
Nor that is not the lark, whose notes do beat
Nor the dejected 'havior of the visage,
northerly.
Nor thine on me.
Nor what he spake, though it lack'd form a little,
Nor what is mine shall never do thee good:
Nor will it yield to Norway or the Pole
Nor windy suspiration of forced breath,
No, sir, I do not bite my thumb at you, sir, but I
No sudden mean of death, though ne'er so mean,
not.
Not body's death, but body's banishment.
Not having that, which, having, makes them short.
not how oft. Where be your gibes now? your
Not I, believe me: you have dancing shoes
not imagination trace the noble dust of Alexander,
Noting this penury, to myself I said
No, 'tis not so deep as a well, nor so wide as a
Not I; unless the breath of heartsick groans,
Not mad, but bound more than a mad-man is;
Not of that dye which their investments show,
Not proud, you have; but thankful, that you have:
No traveller returns, puzzles the will
Not Romeo, prince, he was Mercutio's friend;
No trophy, sword, nor hatchment o'er his bones,
Not shriving-time allow'd.
Not so big as a round little worm
Not step o'er the bounds of modesty.
not there for the goose.
Not to his father's; I spoke with his man.
Not truly in their hearts, but in their eyes.
Not yet enjoy'd: so tedious is this day
Now, afore God! this reverend holy friar,
No warmth, no breath, shall testify thou livest;
now art thou sociable, now art thou Romeo; now art
Now, by Saint Peter's Church and Peter too,
Now, by the stock and honour of my kin,
Now comes the wanton blood up in your cheeks,
Now do you know the reason of this haste.
Now, ere the sun advance his burning eye,
Now falls on Priam.
Now fear I this will give it start again;
Now follows, that you know, young Fortinbras,
Now for ourself and for this time of meeting:
Now get you to my lady's chamber, and tell her, let
Now, good sweet nurse,--O Lord, why look'st thou sad?
now; if it be not now, yet it will come: the
Now I have stain'd the childhood of our joy
Now is he total gules; horridly trick'd
Now is the sun upon the highmost hill
Now, nurse, what news? What hast thou there? the cords
now o'er-reaches; one that would circumvent God,
Now, out of this,--
Now pile your dust upon the quick and dead,
Now Romeo is beloved and loves again,
Now seeming sweet convert to bitter gall.
Now see that noble and most sovereign reason,
Now, sir, her father counts it dangerous
now, to mock your own grinning? quite chap-fallen?
Now, Tybalt, take the villain back again,
Now wears his crown.
Now, what my love is, proof hath made you know;
Now, when the bridegroom in the morning comes
Now will he sit under a medlar tree,
nunnery, go.
nunnery, go: farewell. Or, if thou wilt needs
Nurse!
Nurse?
Nurse, commend me to thy lady and mistress. I
Nurse! What should she do here?
Nurse! Wife! What, ho! What, nurse, I say!
Nurse, will you go with me into my closet,
Obey, and go with me; for thou must die.
Observe mine uncle: if his occulted guilt
Occasion smiles upon a second leave.
odds. But thou wouldst not think how ill all's here
Of accidental judgments, casual slaughters,
Of a despised life closed in my breast
Of all my buried ancestors are packed:
Of all the days of the year, upon that day:
Of all their conference. If she find him not,
Of an old tear that is not wash'd off yet:
Of a poor 'pothecary, and therewithal
Of bell and burial.
Of blue Olympus.
Of breaches, ambuscadoes, Spanish blades,
Of carnal, bloody, and unnatural acts,
Of crow-flowers, nettles, daisies, and long purples
Of dear import, and the neglecting it
Of death, contagion, and unnatural sleep:
Of deaths put on by cunning and forced cause,
Of disobedient opposition
Of each new-hatch'd, unfledged comrade. Beware
Of entrance to a quarrel, but being in,
Of fair demesnes, youthful, and nobly train'd,
Offence's gilded hand may shove by justice,
offends me to the soul to hear a robustious
Of general assault.
Of habits devil, is angel yet in this,
Of Hamlet's transformation; so call it,
Of Hamlet's wildness: so shall I hope your virtues
Of healths five-fathom deep; and then anon
Of her awaking, here untimely lay
Of him that brought them.
Of his affection to me.
Of his behavior.
Of his own just remove: the people muddied,
Of his true state.
Of honourable reckoning are you both;
Of ill-shaped fishes; and about his shelves
Of impious stubbornness; 'tis unmanly grief;
of infinite jest, of most excellent fancy: he hath
Of Jove himself; and now reigns here
Of life, of crown, of queen, at once dispatch'd:
Of limping winter treads, even such delight
Of love?
Of man and country.
Of mighty opposites.
Of mine own eyes.
of Montagues, I pray, come and crush a cup of wine.
Of mortals that fall back to gaze on him
Of my child's love: I think she will be ruled
Of my dug and felt it bitter, pretty fool,
of my servants, for, to speak to you like an honest
Of my true mother.
Of one I danced withal.
Of reverend Priam, seem'd i' the air to stick:
Of some strange nature, letting it there stand
Of stout Mercutio, and then Tybalt fled;
Oft breaking down the pales and forts of reason,
Of that tongue's utterance, yet I know the sound:
Of these delated articles allow.
Of the unworthiest siege.
Of thinking too precisely on the event,
Of this day's journey, and from nine till twelve
Of this his nephew's purpose,--to suppress
Of this post-haste and romage in the land.
Of this sir-reverence love, wherein thou stick'st
Of those effects for which I did the murder,
Of twenty men, it would dispatch you straight.
Of Tybalt deaf to peace, but that he tilts
Of unimproved mettle hot and full,
Of violent birth, but poor validity;
Of yonder knight?
Of your dear father's death, is't writ in your revenge,
Of your precedent lord; a vice of kings;
of your quality; come, a passionate speech.
Old grandsire Priam seeks.'
Once more, on pain of death, all men depart.
One desperate grief cures with another's languish:
One fairer than my love! the all-seeing sun
One, gentlewoman, that God hath made for himself to
one man picked out of ten thousand.
One more, most welcome, makes my number more.
One nick-name for her purblind son and heir,
One of our order, to associate me,
One pain is lessen'd by another's anguish;
One scene of it comes near the circumstance
One that you love.
One who, to put thee from thy heaviness,
One word more, good lady.
One writ with me in sour misfortune's book!
On Fortinbras: he has my dying voice;
On Fortinbras; which he, in brief, obeys;
On fortune's cap we are not the very button.
On Lammas-eve at night shall she be fourteen;
On Mars's armour forged for proof eterne
On pain of torture, from those bloody hands
On plots and errors, happen.
On such regards of safety and allowance
On the fair daughter of rich Capulet:
On the fore-finger of an alderman,
On the white wonder of dear Juliet's hand
On this fair corse; and, as the custom is,
On Thursday next be married to this county.
On wholesome life usurp immediately.
Open the tomb, lay me with Juliet.
or a hair less, in his beard, than thou hast: thou
Or am I mad, hearing him talk of Juliet,
Or are you like the painting of a sorrow,
Or bid me go into a new-made grave
Or but a sickly part of one true sense
Or by pronouncing of some doubtful phrase,
Or by some habit that too much o'er-leavens
Or by the break of day disguised from hence:
or come tardy off, though it make the unskilful
Or dedicate his beauty to the sun.
Or else beshrew them both.
Or else depart; here all eyes gaze on us.
Or ever I had seen that day, Horatio!
Or for some frontier?
Or given my heart a winking, mute and dumb,
Or, if he do, it needs must be by stealth.
Or, if his mind be writ, give me his letter.
Or, if I live, is it not very like,
Or if not so, then here I hit it right,
Or, if sour woe delights in fellowship
Or if thou hast uphoarded in thy life
Or if thou think'st I am too quickly won,
Or, if thou wilt not, be but sworn my love,
Or, if thou wilt, swear by thy gracious self,
Or 'If we list to speak,' or 'There be, an if they might,'
Or, if you do not, make the bridal bed
Or ill-beseeming beast in seeming both!
Or in my cell there would she kill herself.
Or in the incestuous pleasure of his bed;
Or I shall faint. A plague o' both your houses!
Or is it some abuse, and no such thing?
Or I will drag thee on a hurdle thither.
Or like a creature native and indued
Or look'd upon this love with idle sight;
Or lose your heart, or your chaste treasure open
Or manage it to part these men with me.
Or my dear majesty your queen here, think,
Or my true heart with treacherous revolt
Or never after look me in the face:
or nine year: a tanner will last you nine year.
Or not at all.
Or--not to crack the wind of the poor phrase,
Or paddling in your neck with his damn'd fingers,
Or pardon'd being down? Then I'll look up;
Or quit in answer of the third exchange,
or, rather, as you say, my mother: therefore no
Or rather say, the cause of this defect,
Or shall I come to you at evening mass?
Or shall we on without a apology?
Or shut me nightly in a charnel-house,
Or such ambiguous giving out, to note
Or that the Everlasting had not fix'd
Or then, or then; with such, or such; and, as you say,
Or thinking by our late dear brother's death
Or those eyes shut, that make thee answer 'I.'
Or to dispraise my lord with that same tongue
Or to take arms against a sea of troubles,
Or to the dreadful summit of the cliff
Or walk in thievish ways; or bid me lurk
Or, wanting that, with tears distill'd by moans:
or whensoever, provided I be so able as now.
Or with a little shuffling, you may choose
Or you deny me right. Go but apart,
Osric, who brings back to him that you attend him in
other reason but because thou hast hazel eyes: what
Our bridal flowers serve for a buried corse,
Our chiefest courtier, cousin, and our son.
Our crown, our life, and all that we can ours,
Our hasty sending. Something have you heard
Our indiscretion sometimes serves us well,
Our instruments to melancholy bells,
Our purpose may hold there.
Our Romeo hath not been in bed to-night.
Our solemn hymns to sullen dirges change,
Our sovereign process; which imports at full,
Our state to be disjoint and out of frame,
Our thoughts are ours, their ends none of our own:
Our wedding cheer to a sad burial feast,
Our whole city is much bound to him.
Our wills and fates do so contrary run
our youth, by the obligation of our ever-preserved
Out--
out-herods Herod: pray you, avoid it.
Out of her favour, where I am in love.
Out of his lunacies.
Out of his subject: and we here dispatch
out of his swaddling-clouts.
Out of my weakness and my melancholy,
Out of the shot and danger of desire.
Out on her, hilding!
Out, out, thou strumpet, Fortune! All you gods,
outstretched heroes the beggars' shadows. Shall we
out; what she bade me say, I will keep to myself:
Out, you green-sickness carrion! out, you baggage!
Over his kingdom. You know the rendezvous.
Over the nasty sty,--
own defence?
own fingers: therefore he that cannot lick his
Pale as his shirt; his knees knocking each other;
Pale, pale as ashes, all bedaub'd in blood,
Pardon, good Mercutio, my business was great; and in
pardon thereunto, recount the occasion of my sudden
Part, fools!
Passing through nature to eternity.
past compare: he is not the flower of courtesy,
pate full of fine dirt? will his vouchers vouch him
Patience perforce with wilful choler meeting
Pays homage to us--thou mayst not coldly set
peasant comes so near the heel of the courtier, he
Peer'd forth the golden window of the east,
Perchance she cannot meet him: that's not so.
Perchance 'twill walk again.
perdona-mi's, who stand so much on the new form,
periwig-pated fellow tear a passion to tatters, to
person hath here writ. I must to the learned.--In good time.
Peter!
Pinch wanton on your cheek; call you his mouse;
Pink for flower.
Piteous predicament! Even so lies she,
Pitiful sight! here lies the county slain,
Plautus too light. For the law of writ and the
Play'd for a pair of stainless maidenhoods:
players--as it is most like, if their means are no
players that I have seen play, and heard others
play, I remember, pleased not the million; 'twas
Play something like the murder of my father
play with Laertes, or that you will take longer time.
Pleasant and helpful to him!
pleasure: if his fitness speaks, mine is ready; now
Plucks off my beard, and blows it in my face?
plum-tree gum and that they have a plentiful lack of
poem unlimited: Seneca cannot be too heavy, nor
Poison hath residence and medicine power:
Poison, I see, hath been his timeless end:
Poor living corse, closed in a dead man's tomb!
Poor sacrifices of our enmity!
Poor soul, thy face is much abused with tears.
Popp'd in between the election and my hopes,
Possess it merely. That it should come to this!
pox, leave thy damnable faces, and begin. Come:
praise, and that highly, not to speak it profanely,
pray, can you read any thing you see?
Pray you, be round with him.
Prepare her, wife, against this wedding-day.
presently.
Pretty too! What say you, James Soundpost?
Pretty! What say you, Hugh Rebeck?
prevent your discovery, and your secrecy to the king
Priam's slaughter: if it live in your memory, begin
Prick'd from the lazy finger of a maid;
Prick love for pricking, and you beat love down.
Prodigious birth of love it is to me,
Profaners of this neighbour-stained steel,--
progress through the guts of a beggar.
Prompted to my revenge by heaven and hell,
pronounced:
Proportion'd as one's thought would wish a man;
proportion; rests me his minim rest, one, two, and
protest unto thee--
Proud can I never be of what I hate;
proud, revengeful, ambitious, with more offences at
providence in the fall of a sparrow. If it be now,
Provincial roses on my razed shoes, get me a
Pull'd the poor wretch from her melodious lay
purpose, confess thyself--
Purpose is but the slave to memory,
Pursued my humour not pursuing his,
Pursued my life.
Put not another sin upon my head,
Put up your swords; you know not what you do.
Put your dread pleasures more into command
Pyrrhus at Priam drives; in rage strikes wide;
quality that it is but a shadow's shadow.
Quarrel sir! no, sir.
question of the play be then to be considered:
question to thee: if thou answerest me not to the
quoth a'? Gentlemen, can any of you tell me where I
Quoth she, before you tumbled me,
Raise up the Montagues: some others search:
Rankly abused: but know, thou noble youth,
rareness, as, to make true diction of him, his
Rather than Paris. These are news indeed!
readiness is all: since no man has aught of what he
Read o'er the volume of young Paris' face,
Ready to go, but never to return.
Rebellious subjects, enemies to peace,
Rebellious to his arm, lies where it falls,
Received his love?
Receive in either by this dear encounter.
Receives rebuke from Norway, and in fine
Remembering how I love thy company.
Remnants of packthread and old cakes of roses,
Remorseless, treacherous, lecherous, kindless villain!
Repast them with my blood.
Repent what's past; avoid what is to come;
replication should be made by the son of a king?
Repugnant to command: unequal match'd,
Requite him for your father.
Resembles that it was. What it should be,
Re-speaking earthly thunder. Come away.
responsive to the hilts, most delicate carriages,
Rest you merry!
Retain that dear perfection which he owes
Retorts it: Romeo he cries aloud,
Return'd my letter back. Then all alone
Revenge should have no bounds. But, good Laertes,
Revisit'st thus the glimpses of the moon,
Revive, look up, or I will die with thee!
Revolts from true birth, stumbling on abuse:
rewards, his authorities. But such officers do the
Richer than that which four successive kings
Rich gifts wax poor when givers prove unkind.
Riddling confession finds but riddling shrift.
Right.
Right glad I am he was not at this fray.
ring. Masters, you are all welcome. We'll e'en
rogue, a villain, that fights by the book of
Romeo!
Romeo.
Romeo, away, be gone!
Romeo, bon jour! there's a French salutation
Romeo, good night: I'll to my truckle-bed;
Romeo! humours! madman! passion! lover!
Romeo, I come! this do I drink to thee.
Romeo is banish'd; and all the world to nothing,
Romeo is coming.
Romeo! my cousin Romeo!
Romeo! O, pale! Who else? what, Paris too?
Romeo's a dishclout to him: an eagle, madam,
Romeo slew him, he slew Mercutio;
Romeo slew Tybalt, Romeo must not live.
Romeo that kill'd him, he is banished.
Romeo, that she were, O, that she were
Romeo that spoke him fair, bade him bethink
Romeo, the hate I bear thee can afford
Romeo, there dead, was husband to that Juliet;
Romeo will answer it.
Romeo, will you come to your father's? we'll
Rosaline; Livia; Signior Valentio and his cousin
rosemary and Romeo begin both with a letter?
Rough-hew them how we will,--
Roughly awake, I here proclaim was madness.
Running it thus--you'll tender me a fool.
Run to my study. By and by! God's will,
Said he not so? or did I dream it so?
Sailing in this salt flood; the winds, thy sighs;
Saints do not move, though grant for prayers' sake.
Save me, and hover o'er me with your wings,
savoury, nor no matter in the phrase that might
say an old man is twice a child.
Say 'better:' here comes one of my master's kinsmen.
Say either, and I'll stay the circumstance:
say her mind freely, or the blank verse shall halt
say on: he's for a jig or a tale of bawdry, or he
Say, Voltimand, what from our brother Norway?
Say, why is this? wherefore? what should we do?
Scaring the ladies like a crow-keeper;
sconce with a dirty shovel, and will not tell him of
scorn her own image, and the very age and body of
Scripture? The Scripture says 'Adam digged:'
Scurvy knave! I am none of his flirt-gills; I am
Seal'd up the doors, and would not let us forth;
Seal up the mouth of outrage for a while,
Search, seek, and know how this foul murder comes.
see a toad, a very toad, as see him. I anger her
See, how she leans her cheek upon her hand!
Seek for thy noble father in the dust:
Seeking out Romeo, that did spit his body
Seeming to feel this blow, with flaming top
seeming to lament with her. The dead body is
Seem to me all the uses of this world!
see't. Did these bones cost no more the breeding,
See thou character. Give thy thoughts no tongue,
See thou deliver it to my lord and father.
See, what a grace was seated on this brow;
See, what a scourge is laid upon your hate,
See, where he comes: so please you, step aside;
See you now;
semblable is his mirror; and who else would trace
Send for the county; go tell him of this:
sent to find those persons whose names are here
set on some quantity of barren spectators to laugh
Set your entreatments at a higher rate
Shake quoth the dove-house: 'twas no need, I trow,
shall be dry again.
shall be the end of my business.
Shall be the label to another deed,
Shall bitterly begin his fearful date
Shall give him such an unaccustom'd dram,
Shall happily make thee there a joyful bride.
Shall have the chinks.
shall have tribute of me; the adventurous knight
Shall I be married then to-morrow morning?
Shall I not, then, be stifled in the vault,
Shall in the general censure take corruption
Shall I send to thee?
Shall I speak ill of him that is my husband?
Shall keep his native progress, but surcease:
Shall play the umpire, arbitrating that
Shall Romeo bear thee hence to Mantua.
Shall Romeo by my letters know our drift,
Shall, stiff and stark and cold, appear like death:
shall use his foil and target; the lover shall not
shall use me hereafter, drybeat the rest of the
Shall you my son. You have me, have you not?
Shalt with him hence.
Shame come to Romeo!
Shards, flints and pebbles should be thrown on her;
Shark'd up a list of lawless resolutes,
Sharp misery had worn him to the bones:
sharp sauce.
She could have run and waddled all about;
She hath, and in that sparing makes huge waste,
She hath forsworn to love, and in that vow
She hath not seen the change of fourteen years,
She, I'll swear, hath corns; am I come near ye now?
She is not fourteen. How long is it now
She is the fairies' midwife, and she comes
She is the hopeful lady of my earth:
She is too fair, too wise, wisely too fair,
She married. O, most wicked speed, to post
She shall be married to this noble earl.
She should in ground unsanctified have lodged
She's not well married that lives married long;
She speaks:
She speaks yet she says nothing: what of that?
She's so conjunctive to my life and soul,
She turns to favour and to prettiness.
She wakes; and I entreated her come forth,
She was too good for me: but, as I said,
She will beshrew me much that Romeo
She will indite him to some supper.
She will not stay the siege of loving terms,
She would be as swift in motion as a ball;
shift a trencher? he scrape a trencher!
shortly, for one would kill the other. Thou! why,
Shot from the deadly level of a gun,
Should be as moral as an old man's life?
Should be so tyrannous and rough in proof!
should buy the fee-simple of my life for an hour and a quarter.
Should have a back or second, that might hold,
Should have kept short, restrain'd and out of haunt,
should impart a thing to you from his majesty.
Should in the furthest east begin to draw
Should patch a wall to expel the winter flaw!
should quickly have been out, I warrant you: I dare
Should, without eyes, see pathways to his will!
Show a fair presence and put off these frowns,
Show me a mistress that is passing fair,
Show me the steep and thorny way to heaven;
show of protestation unto him. He takes her up,
Shows itself pure; he weeps for what is done.
Shuts up his windows, locks far daylight out
Shut up in prison, kept without my food,
sick health!
sigh gratis; the humourous man shall end his part
signify this to his doctor; for, for me to put him
Since arm from arm that voice doth us affray,
Since birth, and heaven, and earth, all three do meet
Since frost itself as actively doth burn
Since love our hearts and Hymen did our hands
Since my dear soul was mistress of her choice
Since nature cannot choose his origin--
Since nature makes them partial, should o'erhear
Since this same wayward girl is so reclaim'd.
Since yet thy cicatrice looks raw and red
Since you did leave it for my office, sir.
Sin from thy lips? O trespass sweetly urged!
Singeing his pate against the burning zone,
singleness.
sings at grave-making?
sir.
Sir, here is newly come to court Laertes; believe
Sir, in this audience,
Sir Paris, I will make a desperate tender
Sirrah, go hire me twenty cunning cooks.
Sirrah, what made your master in this place?
sir, such answer as I can make, you shall command;
sir, was Yorick's skull, the king's jester.
Sith I have cause and will and strength and means
Sith nor the exterior nor the inward man
Sith you have heard, and with a knowing ear,
Sits smiling to my heart: in grace whereof,
Sitting in the sun under the dove-house wall;
Sleep dwell upon thine eyes, peace in thy breast!
Sleep for a week; for the next night, I warrant,
sleeps: say on: come to Hecuba.
snow, thou shalt not escape calumny. Get thee to a
So, as a painted tyrant, Pyrrhus stood,
So bloodily hast struck?
So by his father lost: and this, I take it,
So by my former lecture and advice,
So crimeful and so capital in nature,
So early waking, what with loathsome smells,
So early walking did I see your son:
So excellent a king; that was, to this,
So fairly bound? O that deceit should dwell
So far from cheer and from your former state,
So far from sounding and discovery,
So fast they follow; your sister's drown'd, Laertes.
So fearful were they of infection.
So frown'd he once, when, in an angry parle,
Soft! take me with you, take me with you, wife.
So full of artless jealousy is guilt,
So grace and mercy at your most need help you, Swear.
So hallow'd and so gracious is the time.
So horridly to shake our disposition
Soil our addition; and indeed it takes
so inoculate our old stock but we shall relish of
Sojourn in Mantua; I'll find out your man,
Sole monarch of the universal earth.
So levied as before, against the Polack:
So loving-jealous of his liberty.
So lust, though to a radiant angel link'd,
So many guests invite as here are writ.
So many thousand times? Go, counsellor;
Some aqua vitae, ho! My lord! my lady!
Some comfort, nurse.
Some consequence yet hanging in the stars
Some five and twenty years; and then we mask'd.
Some Juliet, and some Paris; and all run,
Some little time: so by your companies
Some means to come to shrift this afternoon;
Some misadventure.
Some say that ever 'gainst that season comes
Some say the lark and loathed toad change eyes,
Some say the lark makes sweet division;
Some shall be pardon'd, and some punished:
something; make it a word and a blow.
something: where did I leave?
sometimes and tell her that Paris is the properer
Sometime she driveth o'er a soldier's neck,
Sometime she gallops o'er a courtier's nose,
Some twenty of them fought in this black strife,
some violets, but they withered all when my father
Some word there was, worser than Tybalt's death,
So mortal that, but dip a knife in it,
So much as from occasion you may glean,
So much from the understanding of himself,
So nightly toils the subject of the land,
So, oft it chances in particular men,
soon moody to be moved.
Soon sleep in quiet. O, how my heart abhors
So please you, let me now be left alone,
So, proceed you.
So Romeo would, were he not Romeo call'd,
So runs the world away.
So shall no foot upon the churchyard tread,
So shall you share all that he doth possess,
So shalt thou show me friendship. Take thou that:
So shows a snowy dove trooping with crows,
So soon forsaken? young men's love then lies
So soon to bid good morrow to thy bed:
So stakes me to the ground I cannot move.
So stumblest on my counsel?
So tell him, with the occurrents, more and less,
So that my speed to Mantua there was stay'd.
So think thou wilt no second husband wed;
So thou wilt woo; but else, not for the world.
So thrive my soul--
So to seduce!--won to his shameful lust
sought for, in the great chamber.
So, uncle, there you are. Now to my word;
sound'? What say you, Simon Catling?
southerly I know a hawk from a handsaw.
So will ye, I am sure, that you love me.
So worthy a gentleman to be her bridegroom?
So would I ha' done, by yonder sun,
So you will not o'errule me to a peace.
spacious in the possession of dirt.
Spakest thou of Juliet? how is it with her?
Spare not for the cost.
Speak but one rhyme, and I am satisfied;
Speakest thou from thy heart?
Speak loudly for him.
Speak, man.
Speak, nephew, were you by when it began?
Speak not, reply not, do not answer me;
Speak of it: stay, and speak! Stop it, Marcellus.
Speak to her, Hamlet.
Speak to me:
Speak to my gossip Venus one fair word,
spirit, hath sent me to you.
spirit. Put your bonnet to his right use; 'tis for the head.
Sport and repose lock from me day and night!
Spread thy close curtain, love-performing night,
Sprinkle cool patience. Whereon do you look?
Sprung from neglected love. How now, Ophelia!
Spurns enviously at straws; speaks things in doubt,
stairs into the lobby.
Stand dumb and speak not to him. This to me
Stand not amazed: the prince will doom thee death,
stands the man; good; if the man go to this water,
Stands tiptoe on the misty mountain tops.
Stand up, stand up; stand, and you be a man:
start not so wildly from my affair.
Starts up, and stands on end. O gentle son,
Stay but a little, I will come again.
Stay, fellow; I can read.
Staying for thine to keep him company:
Stay not, be gone; live, and hereafter say,
Stay not to question, for the watch is coming;
steward, that stole his master's daughter.
Stew'd in corruption, honeying and making love
Stick fiery off indeed.
Still am I call'd. Unhand me, gentlemen.
Still blush, as thinking their own kisses sin;
Still-waking sleep, that is not what it is!
Stood challenger on mount of all the age
Stoops to his base, and with a hideous crash
Stop there, stop there.
Stop thy unhallow'd toil, vile Montague!
stoup of liquor.
straight: the crowner hath sat on her, and finds it
Straining harsh discords and unpleasing sharps.
Strange dream, that gives a dead man leave
Strengthen your patience in our last night's speech;
Strike, drum.
Striking too short at Greeks; his antique sword,
strutted and bellowed that I have thought some of
study a speech of some dozen or sixteen lines, which
Stuff'd, as they say, with honourable parts,
Subscribed it, gave't the impression, placed it safely,
substance of the ambitious is merely the shadow of a dream.
Subtly hath minister'd to have me dead,
such a case as mine a man may strain courtesy.
such-a-one's horse, when he meant to beg it; might it not?
Such as I love; and you, among the store,
Such as it is; and for mine own poor part,
Such as would please: 'tis gone, 'tis gone, 'tis gone:
Such comfort as do lusty young men feel
Such dear concernings hide? who would do so?
Such love must needs be treason in my breast:
Such was the very armour he had on
suffer this rude knave now to knock him about the
Supper is done, and we shall come too late.
Sups the fair Rosaline whom thou so lovest,
Sure, he that made us with such large discourse,
Susan and she--God rest all Christian souls!--
Suspecting that we both were in a house
Swear by my sword.
Sweet flower, with flowers thy bridal bed I strew,--
sweet lord! How dost thou, good lord?' This might
sweet sorrow,
Sweet, so would I:
Sweet, sweet, sweet nurse, tell me, what says my love?
Switch and spurs, switch and spurs; or I'll cry a match.
Taint not thy mind, nor let thy soul contrive
Take all myself.
Take each man's censure, but reserve thy judgment.
Take heed, take heed, for such die miserable.
Take him and cut him out in little stars,
take it in what sense thou wilt.
Take it to heart? Fie! 'tis a fault to heaven,
Taken to wife: nor have we herein barr'd
Take our good meaning, for our judgment sits
Takes prisoner Pyrrhus' ear: for, lo! his sword,
Take them in.
Take these again; for to the noble mind
take the wall of any man or maid of Montague's.
Take this from this, if this be otherwise:
Take thou some new infection to thy eye,
Take thou this vial, being then in bed,
Take up the bodies: such a sight as this
Take up those cords: poor ropes, you are beguiled,
Take you, as 'twere, some distant knowledge of him;
Taking the measure of an unmade grave.
Taking thy part, hath rush'd aside the law,
Tears in his eyes, distraction in's aspect,
tears in's eyes. Pray you, no more.
Tell him his pranks have been too broad to bear with,
Tell him that, by his licence, Fortinbras
Tell me in sadness, who is that you love.
Tell me not, friar, that thou hear'st of this,
Tempering extremities with extreme sweet.
Than a command to parley. For Lord Hamlet,
Than are dreamt of in your philosophy. But come;
Than death prorogued, wanting of thy love.
Than empty tigers or the roaring sea.
Than fly to others that we know not of?
Than is my deed to my most painted word:
Than is the throne of Denmark to thy father.
Than I to Hercules: within a month:
Thank me no thankings, nor, proud me no prouds,
thank you: and sure, dear friends, my thanks are
Than may be given you: in few, Ophelia,
Than settled age his sables and his weeds,
Than that which dearest father bears his son,
Than the death-darting eye of cockatrice:
Than the main voice of Denmark goes withal.
Than these poor compounds that thou mayst not sell.
Than this of Juliet and her Romeo.
Than those that have more cunning to be strange.
Than thou went'st forth in lamentation.
Than to entreaty.
Than twenty of their swords: look thou but sweet,
Than with that hand that cut thy youth in twain
Than young Laertes, in a riotous head,
Than your consent gives strength to make it fly.
Than your particular demands will touch it:
That after hours with sorrow chide us not!
That all the world will be in love with night
That almost freezes up the heat of life:
That aptly is put on. Refrain to-night,
That are but mutes or audience to this act,
That are so fortified against our story
That, as the star moves not but in his sphere,
That 'banished,' that one word 'banished,'
That beetles o'er his base into the sea,
That, being of so young days brought up with him,
That birds would sing and think it were not night.
That blurs the grace and blush of modesty,
That book in many's eyes doth share the glory,
That both the worlds I give to negligence,
That calls our person from our morning's rest?
That can denote me truly: these indeed seem,
That cannot be; since I am still possess'd
That capability and god-like reason
That carry but half sense: her speech is nothing,
That copest with death himself to scape from it:
that cry out on the top of question, and are most
That does afflict our natures. I am sorry.
That dreamers often lie.
That else leans on the affair: pray you, make haste.
That even our loves should with our fortunes change;
That ever, ever, I did yet behold!
That ever I should live to see thee dead!
That ever I was born to set it right!
That fair for which love groan'd for and would die,
That father lost, lost his, and the survivor bound
That flesh is heir to, 'tis a consummation
That, for a fantasy and trick of fame,
That for some vicious mole of nature in them,
That from a shelf the precious diadem stole,
That from her working all his visage wann'd,
That gallant spirit hath aspired the clouds,
That God had lent us but this only child;
That grows to seed; things rank and gross in nature
That guilty creatures sitting at a play
That has no relish of salvation in't;
That hath a stomach in't; which is no other--
That hath in it no profit but the name.
That have a father kill'd, a mother stain'd,
That he, as 'twere by accident, may here
That heaven finds means to kill your joys with love.
That he could nothing do but wish and beg
That he cried out, 'twould be a sight indeed,
That he dares ne'er come back to challenge you;
That he is mad, 'tis true: 'tis true 'tis pity;
That he is open to incontinency;
That he might not beteem the winds of heaven
That he shall soon keep Tybalt company:
That he should hither come as this dire night,
That he should weep for her? What would he do,
That he which hath your noble father slain
That hurts by easing. But, to the quick o' the ulcer:--
That I am guiltless of your father's death,
That I distrust you. Yet, though I distrust,
That idles in the wanton summer air,
That I essentially am not in madness,
That if again this apparition come,
That I have? He would drown the stage with tears
That I have longed long to re-deliver;
That I have positively said 'Tis so,'
That I have shot mine arrow o'er the house,
That I have utter'd: bring me to the test,
That I have worn a visor and could tell
That I, in forgery of shapes and tricks,
that I love passing well.
That I might be the organ.
That I might touch that cheek!
That I must be their scourge and minister.
That I must call't in question.
That I must love a loathed enemy.
That in gold clasps locks in the golden story;
That in thy likeness thou appear to us!
That inward breaks, and shows no cause without
That I revived, and was an emperor.
That is but scratch'd withal: I'll touch my point
That I shall live and tell him to his teeth,
That I shall say good night till it be morrow.
That is no slander, sir, which is a truth;
that is not guilty of his own death shortens not his own life.
That is not passion's slave, and I will wear him
That is renown'd for faith? Be fickle, fortune;
that is something stale and hoar ere it be spent.
That I, the son of a dear father murder'd,
That it is proof and bulwark against sense.
That it might please you to give quiet pass
That it went hand in hand even with the vow
That I will show you shining at this feast,
That I will speak to thee: I'll call thee Hamlet,
That I yet know not?
That, lapsed in time and passion, lets go by
That last is true; the sweeter rest was mine.
That late thou gavest me; for Mercutio's soul
That lend a tyrannous and damned light
That liberal shepherds give a grosser name,
That live and feed upon your majesty.
That living mortals, hearing them, run mad:--
That looks so many fathoms to the sea
That makes calamity of so long life;
That may be must be, love, on Thursday next.
That may be, sir, when I may be a wife.
That may convey my greetings, love, to thee.
That may to thee do ease and grace to me,
That might your nature, honour and exception
That monster, custom, who all sense doth eat,
That monthly changes in her circled orb,
That most are busied when they're most alone,
That murder'd me: I would forget it fain;
That murder'd my love's cousin, with which grief,
that, neither having the accent of Christians nor
That no revenue hast but thy good spirits,
That not your trespass, but my madness speaks:
that often maess hits on, which reason and sanity
that old men have grey beards, that their faces are
That one may smile, and smile, and be a villain;
That one short minute gives me in her sight:
That, on the supervise, no leisure bated,
That, on the view and knowing of these contents,
That, open'd, lies within our remedy.
That our devices still are overthrown;
that our last king Hamlet overcame Fortinbras.
That patient merit of the unworthy takes,
that Petrarch flowed in: Laura to his lady was but a
That pierced the fearful hollow of thine ear;
That plats the manes of horses in the night,
That presses them and learns them first to bear,
That quench the fire of your pernicious rage
That roars so loud, and thunders in the index?
That Romeo bid thee fetch?
That Romeo should, upon receipt thereof,
That roots itself in ease on Lethe wharf,
That Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are dead:
That runaway's eyes may wink and Romeo
that runs lolling up and down to hide his bauble in a hole.
That's an ill phrase, a vile phrase; 'beautified' is
That's as much as to say, such a case as yours
That's by me wounded: both our remedies
That sees into the bottom of my grief?
That shall not be my offer, not thy asking?
That shall she, marry; I remember it well.
That she doth give her sorrow so much sway,
that she sends you to prison hither?
That she should lock herself from his resort,
That show of such an exercise may colour
That shows his hoar leaves in the glassy stream;
That shows thee a weak slave; for the weakest goes
That slew thy kinsman, brave Mercutio.
That's not my meaning: but breathe his faults so quaintly
That so his sickness, age and impotence
That spirit upon whose weal depend and rest
that's the end.
That suck'd the honey of his music vows,
that's villanous, and shows a most pitiful ambition
That swift as quicksilver it courses through
That, swoopstake, you will draw both friend and foe,
That the life-weary taker may fall dead
That they are not a pipe for fortune's finger
that they cannot at ease on the old bench? O, their
That they do know my son, come you more nearer
That they may seem the taints of liberty,
That thou consent to marry us to-day.
That thou, dead corse, again in complete steel
That thou expect'st not nor I look'd not for.
That thou hast done me; therefore turn and draw.
That thou her maid art far more fair than she:
That thou so many princes at a shot
That thus hath cozen'd you at hoodman-blind?
That thus he suffers for.
That thy rebellion looks so giant-like?
That tips with silver all these fruit-tree tops--
That to Laertes I forgot myself;
That to the use of actions fair and good
That treason can but peep to what it would,
That unmatch'd form and feature of blown youth
That unsubstantial death is amorous,
That villain cousin would have kill'd my husband:
That warns my old age to a sepulchre.
That was and is the question of these wars.
That we are made of stuff so flat and dull
That we can let our beard be shook with danger
That we find out the cause of this effect,
That we have had no time to move our daughter:
That we may call it early by and by.
That were some spite: my invocation
that were wont to set the table on a roar? Not one
That westward rooteth from the city's side,
That we with wisest sorrow think on him,
That when she dies with beauty dies her store.
That while Verona by that name is known,
That would not let me sleep: methought I lay
That you are now a maid. Thus then in brief:
That you, at such times seeing me, never shall,
That you do bend your eye on vacancy
That you have ta'en these tenders for true pay,
That you know aught of me: this not to do,
That your good beauties be the happy cause
that? your majesty and we that have free souls, it
That you run mad, seeing that she is well:
That you shall all repent the loss of mine:
That you shall rest but little. God forgive me,
That youth and observation copied there;
That you vouchsafe your rest here in our court
Thaw and resolve itself into a dew!
the air, promise-crammed: you cannot feed capons so.
The ape is dead, and I must conjure him.
The apparition comes: I knew your father;
The associates tend, and every thing is bent
The bark is ready, and the wind at help,
The bell then beating one,--
The better to beguile. This is for all:
The bird of dawning singeth all night long:
the body. The king is a thing--
The bold winds speechless and the orb below
The boy gives warning something doth approach.
The brightness of her cheek would shame those stars,
The canker galls the infants of the spring,
The cannons to the heavens, the heavens to earth,
The cat will mew and dog will have his day.
The changeling never known. Now, the next day
The chariest maid is prodigal enough,
The citizens are up, and Tybalt slain.
The clock struck nine when I did send the nurse;
The cock, that is the trumpet to the morn,
The collars of the moonshine's watery beams,
The corse they follow did with desperate hand
The counterfeit presentment of two brothers.
The County Paris, at Saint Peter's Church,
The County Paris hath set up his rest,
The county will be here with music straight,
the courageous captain of compliments. He fights as
The courtier's, soldier's, scholar's, eye, tongue, sword;
The cover of the wings of grasshoppers,
The curfew-bell hath rung, 'tis three o'clock:
the daintier sense.
The dashing rocks thy sea-sick weary bark!
The date is out of such prolixity:
The day is broke; be wary, look about.
The day is hot, the Capulets abroad,
The day to cheer and night's dank dew to dry,
The death I gave him. So, again, good night.
The devil himself.
The doors of breath, seal with a righteous kiss
The drink, the drink! I am poison'd.
the duke's name; his wife, Baptista: you shall see
thee!' and by the operation of the second cup draws
The ears are senseless that should give us hearing,
the earth?
The earth hath swallow'd all my hopes but she,
The earth that's nature's mother is her tomb;
thee. Farewell.
The effect of what I wrote?
Thee here in dark to be his paramour?
The exchange of thy love's faithful vow for mine.
The excuse that thou dost make in this delay
The expectancy and rose of the fair state,
The extravagant and erring spirit hies
The fair Ophelia! Nymph, in thy orisons
The fearful passage of their death-mark'd love,
The fee-simple! O simple!
The fiery Tybalt, with his sword prepared,
the first row of the pious chanson will show you
The fish lives in the sea, and 'tis much pride
The flash and outbreak of a fiery mind,
the foils be brought, the gentleman willing, and the
The form of death: meantime I writ to Romeo,
The form of plausive manners, that these men,
The Frenchman gave you, bring you in fine together
the gait of Christian, pagan, nor man, have so
The gallant, young and noble gentleman,
the gallows may do well to thee. To't again, come.
The game was ne'er so fair, and I am done.
The glass of fashion and the mould of form,
The glow-worm shows the matin to be near,
The graves stood tenantless and the sheeted dead
The great man down, you mark his favourite flies;
the hall: he sends to know if your pleasure hold to
The hand more instrumental to the mouth,
The harlot's cheek, beautied with plastering art,
The hart ungalled play;
The hateful mansion.
The head and source of all your son's distemper.
The head is not more native to the heart,
The heads of the maids?
The hearers to collection; they aim at it,
The heart-ache and the thousand natural shocks
The heavens do lour upon you for some ill;
The hey-day in the blood is tame, it's humble,
the hobby-horse is forgot.'
the hobby-horse, whose epitaph is 'For, O, for, O,
The horrible conceit of death and night,
The imminent death of twenty thousand men,
The imperial jointress to this warlike state,
The important acting of your dread command? O, say!
The insolence of office and the spurns
The instant burst of clamour that she made,
The inward service of the mind and soul
their books,
Their course of love, the tidings of her death:
Their grand commission; where I found, Horatio,--
Their own enactures with themselves destroy:
Their virtues else--be they as pure as grace,
The kettle-drum and trumpet thus bray out
The king shall drink to Hamlet's better breath;
the king's mess: 'tis a chough; but, as I say,
The lady stirs.
The law that threaten'd death becomes thy friend
the length and breadth of a pair of indentures? The
The leperous distilment; whose effect
The letter was not nice but full of charge
The life of Tybalt.
The light and careless livery that it wears
The lists and full proportions, are all made
The lives of many. The cease of majesty
the matter. These good fellows will bring thee
The measure done, I'll watch her place of stand,
The memory be green, and that it us befitted
the modesty of nature: for any thing so overdone is
them: on the instant they got clear of our ship; so
The more I have, for both are infinite.
The most you sought was her promotion;
Then, as the manner of our country is,
the nation holds it no sin to tarre them to
The natural gates and alleys of the body,
Then be not poor, but break it, and take this.
Thence to a lightness, and, by this declension,
Thence to a watch, thence into a weakness,
Then, dreadful trumpet, sound the general doom!
Then dreams, he of another benefice:
The need we have to use you did provoke
Then gave I her, so tutor'd by my art,
Then goes he to the length of all his arm;
Then Hamlet does it not, Hamlet denies it.
Then have at you with my wit! I will dry-beat you
Then have my lips the sin that they have took.
The nights are wholesome; then no planets strike,
Then is it likely thou wilt undertake
Then love-devouring death do what he dare;
Then mightst thou speak, then mightst thou tear thy hair,
Then move not, while my prayer's effect I take.
Then music with her silver sound'--
The noble Paris and true Romeo dead.
the--No; I know it begins with some other
then; or else shall he suffer not thinking on, with
Then plainly know my heart's dear love is set
Then say at once what thou dost know in this.
Then say, Jove laughs. O gentle Romeo,
Then she hath sworn that she will still live chaste?
Then she is well, and nothing can be ill:
Then, since the case so stands as now it doth,
Then trip him, that his heels may kick at heaven,
Then up he rose, and donn'd his clothes,
Then, venom, to thy work.
Then weep no more. I'll send to one in Mantua,
Then weigh what loss your honour may sustain,
Then will I lay the serving-creature's dagger on
Then, window, let day in, and let life out.
The obsequies that I for thee will keep
The observed of all observers, quite, quite down!
The ocean, overpeering of his list,
The only son of your great enemy.
The oppressor's wrong, the proud man's contumely,
The orchard walls are high and hard to climb,
The origin and commencement of his grief
The other did not so.
The pangs of despised love, the law's delay,
the pantry, and every thing in extremity. I must
The passion ending, doth the purpose lose.
The perfume and suppliance of a minute; No more.
The pith and marrow of our attribute.
The poor advanced makes friends of enemies.
the porter let in Susan Grindstone and Nell.
The portraiture of his: I'll court his favours.
The potent poison quite o'er-crows my spirit:
The pox of such antic, lisping, affecting
The precious treasure of his eyesight lost:
The present death of Hamlet. Do it, England;
The pretty wretch left crying and said 'Ay.'
The quarrel is between our masters and us their men.
The queen carouses to thy fortune, Hamlet.
The queen, the courtiers: who is this they follow?
The rather, if you could devise it so
The ratifiers and props of every word,
thereabout of it especially, where he speaks of
There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio,
There art thou happy: Tybalt would kill thee,
there. Be the players ready?
the recovery of his recoveries, to have his fine
There falling out at tennis:' or perchance,
Therefore be patient, take no note of him:
Therefore do nimble-pinion'd doves draw love,
Therefore farewell; I see thou know'st me not.
Therefore, have done: some grief shows much of love;
therefore, if thou art moved, thou runn'st away.
Therefore I have entreated him along
Therefore let's follow.
Therefore love moderately; long love doth so;
Therefore our sometime sister, now our queen,
Therefore, out of thy long-experienced time,
Therefore, since brevity is the soul of wit,
Therefore stay yet; thou need'st not to be gone.
Therefore thy earliness doth me assure
Therefore thy kinsmen are no let to me.
Therefore use none: let Romeo hence in haste,
Therefore we'll have some half a dozen friends,
There is a play to-night before the king;
There is no end, no limit, measure, bound,
There is no shuffling, there the action lies
There is no world without Verona walls,
there is, sir, an aery of children, little eyases,
There is thy gold, worse poison to men's souls,
There lies that Tybalt.
There lies the man, slain by young Romeo,
There lives within the very flame of love
There, my lord.
There, on the pendent boughs her coronet weeds
there; or, if he do not, it's no great matter there.
there rust, and let me die.
There's a divinity that shapes our ends,
There shall no figure at such rate be set
There's such divinity doth hedge a king,
There stays a husband to make you a wife:
the rest of my fortunes turn Turk with me--with two
There's tricks i' the world; and hems, and beats her heart;
Thereto prick'd on by a most emulate pride,
There was a' gaming; there o'ertook in's rouse;
There with fantastic garlands did she come
the rights of our fellowship, by the consonancy of
The rivals of my watch, bid them make haste.
The roses in thy lips and cheeks shall fade
The safety and health of this whole state;
These but the trappings and the suits of woe.
These dead men's tombs.
These griefs, these woes, these sorrows make me old.
These hands are not more like.
These happy masks that kiss fair ladies' brows
The serpent that did sting thy father's life
these strange flies, these fashion-mongers, these
These times of woe afford no time to woo.
These words, like daggers, enter in mine ears;
The shady curtains from Aurora's bed,
The ship, sir, the slip; can you not conceive?
The slings and arrows of outrageous fortune,
The soldiers' music and the rites of war
The soul of Nero enter this firm bosom:
The source of this our watch and the chief head
The speech, of vantage. Fare you well, my liege:
The stony entrance of this sepulchre?
the streets,
The sun, for sorrow, will not show his head:
The sun no sooner shall the mountains touch,
The sun not yet thy sighs from heaven clears,
The tears have got small victory by that;
The tedious day with sleep.
The terms of our estate may not endure
The thin and wholesome blood: so did it mine;
the third in your bosom: the very butcher of a silk
The time and my intents are savage-wild,
the time and outward habit of encounter; a kind of
the time his form and pressure. Now this overdone,
The time is out of joint: O cursed spite,
the top of my compass: and there is much music,
The traces of the smallest spider's web,
The treacherous instrument is in thy hand,
The triumph of his pledge.
The trumpet to the cannoneer without,
The undiscover'd country from whose bourn
The unlucky manage of this fatal brawl:
The unnerved father falls. Then senseless Ilium,
The unreasonable fury of a beast:
The unseen good old man.
The valiant Paris seeks you for his love.
The vaulty heaven so high above our heads:
The very cause of Hamlet's lunacy.
The very faculties of eyes and ears. Yet I,
The very place puts toys of desperation,
The very soul, and sweet religion makes
The violence of either grief or joy
The virtue of his will: but you must fear,
The what?
The which he loved passing well.'
The which if you with patient ears attend,
the whirlwind of passion, you must acquire and beget
The will of my most seeming-virtuous queen:
The wind sits in the shoulder of your sl,
The woman will be out. Adieu, my lord:
The world affords no law to make thee rich;
The world is not thy friend nor the world's law;
They are all forth. Well, I will walk myself
They are but beggars that can count their worth;
They are free men, but I am banished.
They are not near my conscience; their defeat
they are the abstract and brief chronicles of the
They bear the mandate; they must sweep my way,
They bore him barefaced on the bier;
They clepe us drunkards, and with swinish phrase
They cry 'Choose we: Laertes shall be king:'
they deserve, the more merit is in your bounty.
they escoted? Will they pursue the quality no
They find us touch'd, we will our kingdom give,
They had begun the play--I sat me down,
they have letters for him. Ere we were two days old
They have made worms' meat of me: I have it,
They have proclaim'd their malefactions;
they hold up Adam's profession.
they list.
They'll be in scarlet straight at any news.
They must take it in sense that feel it.
The youth you breathe of guilty, be assured
They pray, grant thou, lest faith turn to despair.
They shall go far with little.
They were given me by Claudio; he received them
Thick and unwholesome in their thoughts and whispers,
Things have fall'n out, sir, so unluckily,
Things standing thus unknown, shall live behind me!
Things that, to hear them told, have made me tremble;
Think true love acted simple modesty.
This above all: to thine ownself be true,
This bodes some strange eruption to our state.
This bodiless creation ecstasy
this box; and must the inheritor himself have no more, ha?
This bud of love, by summer's ripening breath,
This but begins the woe, others must end.
This, by his voice, should be a Montague.
This cannot anger him: 'twould anger him
This dagger hath mista'en--for, lo, his house
This day's black fate on more days doth depend;
This doth not so, for she divideth us:
This field-bed is too cold for me to sleep:
This gentle and unforced accord of Hamlet
This gentleman, the prince's near ally,
this, give these fellows some means to the king:
This grave shall have a living monument:
This heavy-headed revel east and west
This holy shrine, the gentle fine is this:
This, in obedience, hath my daughter shown me,
This is as't should be. Let me see the county;
This is dear mercy, and thou seest it not.
This is my daughter's jointure, for no more
This is not Romeo, he's some other where.
This is one Lucianus, nephew to the king.
This is she--
This is that banish'd haughty Montague,
This is the hag, when maids lie on their backs,
This is the imposthume of much wealth and peace,
This is the place; there, where the torch doth burn.
This is the truth, or let Benvolio die.
This is the very ecstasy of love,
This is thy sheath;
This letter doth make good the friar's words,
This letter he early bid me give his father,
This love feel I, that feel no love in this.
this machine is to him, HAMLET.'
This mad young man: but so much was our love,
This man shall set me packing:
This marvel to you.
this month, you shall nose him as you go up the
This must be known; which, being kept close, might
This must not be:' and then I precepts gave her,
This neighbour air, and let rich music's tongue
This night I hold an old accustom'd feast,
This night to play before him.
This night you shall behold him at our feast;
This physic but prolongs thy sickly days.
this pipe?
This precious book of love, this unbound lover,
This presence knows,
This present object made probation.
This realdismantled was
This shall determine that.
This something-settled matter in his heart,
This spirit, dumb to us, will speak to him.
This sudden sending him away must seem
This torture should be roar'd in dismal hell.
This to your majesty; this to the queen.
This trick may chance to scathe you, I know what:
This unprevailing woe, and think of us
This vault a feasting presence full of light.
This warlike volley.
This was your husband. Look you now, what follows:
This wind, you talk of, blows us from ourselves;
This world is not for aye, nor 'tis not strange
Those friends thou hast, and their adoption tried,
those that are married already, all but one, shall
those that do in: now thou dost ill to say the
Thou and my bosom henceforth shall be twain.
Thou and these woes were all for Rosaline:
Thou art like one of those fellows that when he
Thou art not conquer'd; beauty's ensign yet
Thou art thyself, though not a Montague.
Thou art up-roused by some distemperature;
Thou canst not speak of that thou dost not feel:
Thou canst not then be false to any man.
Thou chid'st me oft for loving Rosaline.
Thou comest in such a questionable shape
Thou counterfeit'st a bark, a sea, a wind;
Thou cutt'st my head off with a golden axe,
Thou desirest me to stop in my tale against the hair.
Thou desperate pilot, now at once run on
Thou detestable maw, thou womb of death,
Thou find'st to be too busy is some danger.
Though all the earth o'erwhelm them, to men's eyes.
Though heaven cannot: O Romeo, Romeo!
though, I know, to divide him inventorially would
though I most powerfully and potently believe, yet
Though inclination be as sharp as will:
Though lewdness court it in a shape of heaven,
Though news be sad, yet tell them merrily;
Though nothing sure, yet much unhappily.
though they be not to be talked on, yet they are
Thou hast amazed me: by my holy order,
Thou hast most kindly hit it.
Thou hast the strength of will to slay thyself,
Thou know'st already.
Thou know'st my daughter's of a pretty age.
Thou know'st my lodging: get me ink and paper,
Thou know'st the mask of night is on my face,
Thou know'st 'tis common; all that lives must die,
Thou livest; report me and my cause aright
thou make minstrels of us, look to hear nothing but
Thou mayst prove false; at lovers' perjuries
Thou mixture rank, of midnight weeds collected,
Thou pout'st upon thy fortune and thy love:
thousand pound. Didst perceive?
thousand tenants.
Thou shalt be borne to that same ancient vault
Thou shalt be logger-head. Good faith, 'tis day:
Thou shalt continue two and forty hours,
Thou sober-suited matron, all in black,
Thou talk'st of nothing.
Thou turn'st mine eyes into my very soul;
Thou villain Capulet,--Hold me not, let me go.
Thou wast never with me for any thing when thou wast
Thou wast the prettiest babe that e'er I nursed:
thou what thou art, by art as well as by nature:
Thou wilt be taken. Stay awhile! Stand up;
Thou wilt fall backward when thou comest to age;
Thou wilt fall backward when thou hast more wit;
thou wilt quarrel with a man that hath a hair more,
Thou wouldst else have made thy tale large.
Thou, wretched boy, that didst consort him here,
Thou wretched, rash, intruding fool, farewell!
Thou wrong'st it, more than tears, with that report.
three and twenty years.
Three civil brawls, bred of an airy word,
three hits: he hath laid on twelve for nine; and it
Three Musicians.
Three words, dear Romeo, and good night indeed.
Through fair Verona; find those persons out
Through lovers' brains, and then they dream of love;
through the most fond and winnowed opinions; and do
Through your dominions for this enterprise,
Thrown out his angle for my proper life,
Throw your mistemper'd weapons to the ground,
Thuhas he--and many more of the same bevy that I
Thursday is near; lay hand on heart, advise:
thus: Alexander died, Alexander was buried,
Thus bad begins and worse remains behind.
Thus conscience does make cowards of us all;
Thus from my lips, by yours, my sin is purged.
Thus I enforce thy rotten jaws to open,
Thus it remains, and the remainder thus. Perpend.
Thus much the business is: we have here writ
Thus set it down: he shall with speed to England,
Thus was I, sleeping, by a brother's hand
Thy beauty hath made me effeminate
Thy dear love sworn but hollow perjury,
thy dowry: be thou as chte as ice, as pure as
Thy drugs are quick. Thus with a kiss I die.
Thy face is mine, and thou hast slander'd it.
Thy father, or thy mother, nay, or both,
Thy fault our law calls death; but the kind prince,
Thy head is as fun of quarrels as an egg is full of
Thy husband in thy bosom there lies dead;
Thy knotted and combined locks to part
Thy lips are warm.
Thy love did read by rote and could not spell.
Thy natural magic and dire property,
Thy noble shape is but a form of wax,
Thy old groans ring yet in my ancient ears;
Thy purpose marriage, send me word to-morrow,
Thy tears are womanish; thy wild acts denote
Thy tempest-tossed body. How now, wife!
Thy wit is a very bitter sweeting; it is a most
thy wits than, I am sure, I have in my whole five:
Thy wit, that ornament to shape and love,
Tickle the senseless rushes with their heels,
Tickling a parson's nose as a' lies asleep,
Ties up my tongue, and will not let me speak.
Till by some elder masters, of known honour,
till he find it stopping a bung-hole?
Till holy church incorporate two in one.
Till I conveniently could send to Romeo:
Till I have caught her once more in mine arms:
Till of this flat a mountain you have made,
Till our scale turn the beam. O rose of May!
Till she had laid it and conjured it down;
Till that her garments, heavy with their drink,
Till the foul crimes done in my days of nature
Till the last trumpet: for charitable prayers,
Till then, adieu; and keep this holy kiss.
Till then, in patience our proceeding be.
Till then sit still, my soul: foul deeds will rise,
Till the prince came, who parted either part.
Till thou shalt know the reason of my love:
Till we can clear these ambiguities,
time: after your death you were better have a bad
time gives it proof. I did love you once.
Time out o' mind the fairies' coachmakers.
Time qualifies the spark and fire of it.
Tis now the very witching time of night,
To all that fortune, death and danger dare,
To an exploit, now ripe in my device,
To an impatient child that hath new robes
To answer 'I'll not wed; I cannot love,
To answer that, I should confess to you.
to any gentlewoman, and very weak dealing.
To any pastime?
To assume a pleasing shape; yea, and perhaps
To be a preparation 'gainst the Polack;
To bear a poison, I would temper it;
To bear our hearts in grief and our whole kingdom
To beautify him, only lacks a cover:
To be a virtuous and well-govern'd youth:
To be commanded.
To be consorted with the humorous night:
To be contracted in one brow of woe,
To be forestalled ere we come to fall,
To be to thee this night a torch-bearer,
To be your Valentine.
To bid me trudge:
To blaze your marriage, reconcile your friends,
To blazon it, then sweeten with thy breath
To both your honours.
To breathe such vows as lovers use to swear;
To business with the king, more than the scope
To call hers exquisite, in question more:
To cast beyond ourselves in our opinions
To cast thee up again. What may this mean,
To catch my death with jaunting up and down!
To cease thy suit, and leave me to my grief:
to comfort me.
To comfort thee, though thou art banished.
To comfort you: I wot well where he is.
To contract, O, the time, for, ah, my behove,
To County Paris: then comes she to me,
To County Paris, to prepare him up
To cross my obsequies and true love's rite?
To desperation turn my trust and hope!
to dinner, thither.
To do obsequious sorrow: but to persever
To do't. Examples gross as earth exhort me:
To draw him on to pleasures, and to gather,
To ears of flesh and blood. List, list, O, list!
To England send him, or confine him where
To enter in the thoughts of desperate men!
To feed and clothe thee? Why should the poor be flatter'd?
To fetch a ladder, by the which your love
To flaming youth let virtue be as wax,
To fleer and scorn at our solemnity?
To follow this fair corse unto her grave:
To fust in us unused. Now, whether it be
Together with all forms, moods, shapes of grief,
Together with remembrance of ourselves.
Together with that fair and warlike form
Together with the terror of the place,--
To give in evidence. What then? what rests?
To give it due content.
To give the assay of arms against your majesty.
To give them seals never, my soul, consent!
To give these mourning duties to your father:
To give the world assurance of a man:
To go with Paris to Saint Peter's Church,
To grubs and eyeless skulls? as I discern,
To grunt and sweat under a weary life,
To have her match'd: and having now provided
To have proved most royally: and, for his passage,
To have seen what I have seen, see what I see!
To hear and see the matter.
To hear good counsel: O, what learning is!
To hear him named, and cannot come to him.
To hear him so inclined.
to hear it.
To hear of it: they are about the court,
To hear the process; and warrant she'll tax him home:
To hear true shrift. Come, madam, let's away.
To heaven.
To hell, allegiance! vows, to the blackest devil!
To help me after? I will kiss thy lips;
To help me sort such needful ornaments
To help to take her from her borrow'd grave,
To hide the slain? O, from this time forth,
To him from whom you brought them.
To his confine: and of the truth herein
To his own scandal.
to his purgation would perhaps plunge him into far
To his unmaster'd importunity.
to in a month.
To Juliet's grave; for there must I use thee.
To keep it from divulging, let it feed
To keep itself from noyance; but much more
To keep my name ungored. But till that time,
To keep those many many bodies safe
To know our further pleasure in this case,
To lack discretion. Come, go we to the king:
To Lammas-tide?
To lay one in, another out to have.
To lay our service freely at your feet,
To let his madness range. Therefore prepare you;
To let this canker of our nature come
To let you know of it.
To lie discolour'd by this place of peace?
To live an unstain'd wife to my sweet love.
To lure this tassel-gentle back again!
To make confession and to be absolved.
To make die with a restorative.
To make it truster of your own report
To make oppression bitter, or ere this
To make them ranker. Forgive me this my virtue;
To mangle me with that word 'banished'?
To Mantua, with my letters to thy lord.
To marry Paris: Wednesday is to-morrow:
To meet her new-beloved any where:
To merit bliss by making me despair:
To mine own room again; making so bold,
To-morrow is Saint Valentine's day,
To-morrow night look that thou lie alone;
To-morrow will I send.
To move is to stir; and to be valiant is to stand:
To move the heavens to smile upon my state,
To muddy death.
To murder, murder our solemnity?
To my revenge: but in my terms of honour
To my sick soul, as sin's true nature is,
tongues else for's turn.
To-night she is mew'd up to her heaviness.
To Norway, uncle of young Fortinbras,--
too, and suffer every knave to use me at his pleasure?
too dear a halfpenny. Were you not sent for? Is it
Too early seen unknown, and known too late!
To o'ertop old Pelion, or the skyish head
To offer it the show of violence;
Too flattering-sweet to be substantial.
Too great oppression for a tender thing.
To old Free-town, our common judgment-place.
Too like the lightning, which doth cease to be
too much with your hand, thus, but use all gently;
Too oft before their buttons be disclosed,
Too rude, too boisterous, and it pricks like thorn.
Too slightly timber'd for so loud a wind,
Too swift arrives as tardy as too slow.
too; though, in the mean time, some necessary
To our most valiant brother. So much for him.
To outface me with leaping in her grave?
To paly ashes, thy eyes' windows fall,
To pay five ducats, five, I would not farm it;
To pay ourselves what to ourselves is debt:
To press before thy father to a grave?
To prick and sting her. Fare thee well at once!
To prison, eyes, ne'er look on liberty!
To punish me with this and this with me,
To put an antic disposition on,
To quit him with this arm? and is't not to be damn'd,
To raise a spirit in his mistress' circle
To reason most absurd: whose common theme
To rid her from this second marriage,
Torments him so, that he will sure run mad.
To rouse thee from thy bed, there art thou dead:
To say to me that thou art out of breath?
To scorn at our solemnity this night.
To season love, that of it doth not taste!
To see it tetchy and fall out with the dug!
To seek him here that means not to be found.
To see, now, how a jest shall come about!
to see thee well. Welcome, good friends. O, my old
To see thy son and heir more early down.
To serve in such a difference. What devil was't
To show his grief: let her be round with him;
To show my duty in your coronation,
To show us so much gentry and good will
To show yourself your father's son in deed
To sing a requiem and such rest to her
To sleep: perchance to dream: ay, there's the rub;
To smooth that rough touch with a tender kiss.
To soar with his light feathers, and so bound,
To sound what stop she please. Give me that man
To speak of horrors,--he comes before me.
To stop the inundation of her tears;
To strike him dead, I hold it not a sin.
To such a greeting: villain am I none;
To sunder his that was thine enemy?
To take him in the purging of his soul,
To tell him his commandment is fulfill'd,
To tell my story.
To tell the secrets of my prison-house,
To tell us this.
To the ambassadorsf England gives
to the court? for, by my fay, I cannot reason.
To the dead bodies: I will apprehend him.
to the goose, proves thee far and wide a broad goose.
To the inheritance of Fortinbras,
To their lord's murder: roasted in wrath and fire,
To the next abstinence: the next more easy;
To the unsatisfied.
to the wall.
to think!--
To think it should leave crying and say 'Ay.'
To think it was so? O, give me thy hand,
To this same place, to this same monument.
To those of mine!
to't like French falconers, fly at any thing we see:
To try conclusions, in the basket creep,
To turn your households' rancour to pure love.
To twinkle in their spheres till they return.
touches us not: let the galled jade wince, our
Touching this dreaded sight, twice seen of us:
Towards him I made, but he was ware of me
Towards Phoebus' lodging: such a wagoner
To wash it white as snow? Whereto serves mercy
To what I shall unfold.
To whom he more adheres. If it will please you
To whose foul mouth no healthsome air breathes in,
To whose huge spokes ten thousand lesser things
To wield old partisans, in hands as old,
town-crier spoke my lines. Nor do not saw the air
To wreak the love I bore my cousin
To you alone.
To you and your behests, and am enjoin'd
To you in satisfaction; but if not,
to your French slop. You gave us the counterfeit
To youth and liberty.
To you yourself, to us, to every one.
tragedians of the city.
transform honesty from what it is to a bawd than the
Transparent heretics, be burnt for liars!
Transports his poison'd shot, may miss our name,
Treachery! Seek it out.
True; and therefore women, being the weaker vessels,
true descent;
True, I talk of dreams,
truepenny?
Truly deliver.
truly in my youth I suffered much extremity for
Trust to't, bethink you; I'll not be forsworn.
Try what repentance can: what can it not?
Turn back, dull earth, and find thy centre out.
Turn from their office to black funeral;
Turn giddy, and be holp by backward turning;
Turning his face to the dew-dropping south.
Turn thee, Benvolio, look upon thy death.
Turn to another, this shall slay them both:
Tush, I will stir about,
Tut, dun's the mouse, the constable's own word:
Tut, I have lost myself; I am not here;
Tut, man, one fire burns out another's burning,
Tut, you saw her fair, none else being by,
Tweaks me by the nose? gives me the lie i' the throat,
Two Clowns, grave-diggers.
Two households, both alike in dignity,
Two may keep counsel, putting one away?
Two of the fairest stars in all the heaven,
two of the house of the Montagues.
Two such opposed kings encamp them still
Two, two; a shirt and a smock.
Tybalt, here slain, whom Romeo's hand did slay;
Tybalt, liest thou there in thy bloody sheet?
Tybalt, Lucio and the lively Helena.' A fair
Tybalt, Mercutio, the prince expressly hath
Tybalt, that murderer, which way ran he?
Tybalt, the kinsman of old Capulet,
Tybalt, the reason that I have to love thee
Tybalt, you rat-catcher, will you walk?
tying his new shoes with old riband? and yet thou
tyrannically clapped for't: these are now the
Unbated and envenom'd: the foul practise
uncle Capulet, his wife and daughters; my fair niece
uncle-father and aunt-mother are deceived.
Uncle, this is a Montague, our foe,
Uncomfortable time, why camest thou now
Under love's heavy burden do I sink.
Under the moon, can save the thing from death
Under the which he shall not choose but fall:
Under yond yew-trees lay thee all along,
Uneven is the course, I like it not.
Unfold the imagined happiness that both
Ungarter'd, and down-gyved to his ancle;
Unhousel'd, disappointed, unanel'd,
Unite commutual in most sacred bands.
Unless good counsel may the cause remove.
Unless philosophy can make a Juliet,
Unless that husband send it me from heaven
Unless things mortal move them not at all,
Unless thou tell me how I may prevent it:
unmannerly.
Unmix'd with baser matter: yes, by heaven!
Unpeg the basket on the house's top.
Unplagued with corns will have a bout with you.
Unseemly woman in a seeming man!
Unsifted in such perilous circumstance.
Until my eyelids will no longer wag.
Unto my cell.
Unto our climatures and countrymen.--
Unto that element: but long it could not be
Unto the rigour of severest law.
Unto the voice and yielding of that body
Unto the white-upturned wondering eyes
Unto young Hamlet; for, upon my life,
Unwieldy, slow, heavy and pale as lead.
Unworthy as she is, that we have wrought
upon a bank of flowers: she, seeing him asleep,
Upon a fearful summons. I have heard,
Upon a rapier's point: stay, Tybalt, stay!
Upon a wretch whose natural gifts were poor
Upon his body that slaughter'd him!
Upon his brow shame is ashamed to sit;
Upon his will I seal'd my hard consent:
Upon my secure hour thy uncle stole,
Upon our first, he sent out to suppress
Upon so soft a subject as myself!
Upon the heat and flame of thy distemper
Upon the platform, 'twixt eleven and twelve,
Upon the sweetest flower of all the field.
upon the table and says 'God send me no need of
Upon the witness of these gentlemen,
Upon whose influence Neptune's empire stands
Upon whose property and most dear life
Up, sword; and know thou a more horrid hent:
Up to the ears. Come, we burn daylight, ho!
Use them after your own honour and dignity: the less
Utter your gravity o'er a gossip's bowl;
variable service, two dishes, but to one table:
verity of extolment, I take him to be a soul of
Verona: Mantua.
very conveyances of his lands will hardly lie in
very first house, of the first and second cause:
very rags, to split the ears of the groundlings, who
Videlicet, a brothel, or so forth.
Vile earth, to earth resign; end motion here;
Virtue itself of vice must pardon beg,
Virtue itself 'scapes not calumnious strokes:
Virtue itself turns vice, being misapplied;
Visit her face too roughly. Heaven and earth!
wakened thy dog that hath lain asleep in the sun:
Walks o'er the dew of yon high eastward hill:
wards and dungeons, Denmark being one o' the worst.
Warm and new kill'd.
warrant, a virtuous,--Where is your mother?
was a fishmonger: he is far gone, far gone: and
Was, as you know, by Fortinbras of Norway,
was converted, might they not stop a beer-barrel?
Was ever book containing such vile matter
Was falsely borne in hand, sends out arrests
Was gaged by our king; which had return'd
Wash they his wounds with tears: mine shall be spent,
was hurt under your arm.
was I with you there for the goose?
Was not like madness. There's something in his soul,
Was our sea-fight; and what to this was sequent
Was sick almost to doomsday with eclipse:
Was stay'd by accident, and yesternight
Was't Hamlet wrong'd Laertes? Never Hamlet:
Was that my father that went hence so fast?
was the very day that young Hamlet was born; he that
Was Tybalt's dooms-day, whose untimely death
Was woe enough, if it had ended there:
ways, wench; serve God. What, have you dined at home?
We are undone, lady, we are undone!
We beg your hearing patiently.
We cannot get from him.
We cannot without circumstance descry.
We do it wrong, being so majestical,
We go to gain a little patch of ground
We have a trifling foolish banquet towards.
We heard it all. My lord, do as you please;
Weigh whatonvenience both of time and means
Welcome from Mantua: what says Romeo?
Welcome, gentlemen! I have seen the day
Welcome, gentlemen! ladies that have their toes
welcome to Elsinore.
Well, do not swear: although I joy in thee,
Well get you gone: o' Thursday be it, then.
we'll have a speech straight: come, give us a taste
We'll have no Cupid hoodwink'd with a scarf,
Well, he may chance to do some good on her:
Well, in that hit you miss: she'll not be hit
Well, Juliet, I will lie with thee to-night.
We'll keep no great ado,--a friend or two;
We'll make a solemn wager on your cunnings: I ha't.
Well may it sort that this portentous figure
We'll measure them a measure, and be gone.
Well, peace be with you, sir: here comes my man.
We'll put on those shall praise your excellence
We'll put the matter to the present push.
Well ratified by law and heraldry,
Well said: follow me this jest now till thou hast
Well said, my hearts! You are a princox; go:
Well, sir.
Well, sir; my mistress is the sweetest lady--Lord,
We'll teach you to drink deep ere you depart.
well, they imitated humanity so abominably.
Well, thou hast comforted me marvellous much.
Well, what was yours?
We may of their encounter frankly judge,
We met, we woo'd and made exchange of vow,
We must talk in secret:--nurse, come back again;
We must, with all our majesty and skill,
We o'er-raught on the way: of these we told him;
were better my mother had not borne me: I am very
Were in a mask?
were no sallets in the lines to make the matter
Were nothing but to waste night, day and time.
Were of an age: well, Susan is with God;
Were thicker than itself with brother's blood,
Were thinly scatter'd, to make up a show.
Wert thou as young as I, Juliet thy love,
We see the ground whereon these woes do lie;
We shall be much unfurnished for this time.
We shall express our duty in his eye;
We should do when we would; for this 'would' changes
We should profane the service of the dead
We still have known thee for a holy man.
We sucking on her natural bosom find,
We talk here in the public haunt of men:
We took this mattock and this spade from him,
We waste our lights in vain, like lamps by day.
We will bestow ourselves.
We would as willingly give cure as know.
We would not understand what was most fit;
What a piece of work is a man! how noble in reason!
What are they, I beseech your ladyship?
What, art thou drawn among these heartless hinds?
What, art thou hurt?
What company, at what expense; and finding
What curious eye doth quote deformities?
What cursed foot wanders this way to-night,
What devil art thou, that dost torment me thus?
What does this mean, my lord?
What doth her beauty serve, but as a note
What do you read, my lord?
What, drawn, and talk of peace! I hate the word,
What, dress'd! and in your clothes! and down again!
What early tongue so sweet saluteth me?
Whate'er thou hear'st or seest, stand all aloof,
What fear is this which startles in our ears?
What feast is toward in thine eternal cell,
What forgeries you please; marry, none so rank
What further woe conspires against mine age?
What, goodman boy! I say, he shall: go to;
What hast thou found?
What, have you given him any hard words of late?
What here shall miss, our toil shall strive to mend.
What, ho! apothecary!
What if her eyes were there, they in her head?
What if it be a poison, which the friar
What if this mixture do not work at all?
What I have said to you.
What I have spoke: but farewell compliment!
What is between you? give me up the truth.
What is her burying grave that is her womb,
What is her mother?
What, is Horatio there?
What is it else? a madness most discreet,
What, is my daughter gone to Friar Laurence?
What is't but to be nothing else but mad?
What is the issue of the business there.
What is the matter?
What is the reason that you use me thus?
what is this quintessence of dust? man delights not
What is your will?
What less than dooms-day is the prince's doom?
What majesty should be, what duty is,
What man art thou that thus bescreen'd in night
What, man! 'tis not so much, 'tis not so much:
What mean these masterless and gory swords
What might be toward, that this sweaty haste
What might you think? No, I went round to work,
What misadventure is so early up,
what monsters you make of them. To a nunnery, go,
What must be shall be.
What noise is this? Give me my long sword, ho!
What, not a word? you take your pennyworths now;
What, rouse thee, man! thy Juliet is alive,
What said my man, when my betossed soul
What satisfaction canst thou have to-night?
What says he of our marriage? what of that?
What say'st thou? hast thou not a word of joy?
What say'st thou, my dear nurse?
What, shall I groan and tell thee?
What shall I swear by?
What, shall this speech be spoke for our excuse?
What's Hecuba to him, or he to Hecuba,
What's here? a cup, closed in my true love's hand?
What's he that follows there, that would not dance?
What's he that now is going out of door?
What should it be, that they so shriek abroad?
What should this mean? Are all the rest come back?
What simpleness is this! I come, I come!
What's in a name? that which we call a rose
What's Montague? it is nor hand, nor foot,
What's near it with it: it is a massy wheel,
What sorrow craves acquaintance at my hand,
What's there?
What storm is this that blows so contrary?
What think you on't?
What thou hast said to me.
What to ourselves in passion we propose,
What torch is yond, that vainly lends his light
What unaccustom'd cause procures her hither?
What villain madam?
What warlike noise is this?
What we have two nights seen.
what we may be. God be at your table!
What wilt thou tell her, nurse? thou dost not mark me.
What, wilt thou wash him from his grave with tears?
What with a torch! muffle me, night, awhile.
What wouldst thou have, Laertes?
What wouldst thou have with me?
When but love's shadows are so rich in joy!
When churchyards yawn and hell itself breathes out
When down her weedy trophies and herself
When he bestrides the lazy-pacing clouds
When he himself might his quietus make
When he is drunk asleep, or in his rage,
When he is fit and season'd for his passage?
When he lay couched in the ominous horse,
When he the ambitious Norway combated;
When honour's at the stake. How stand I then,
When I had seen this hot love on the wing--
When in one line two crafts directly meet.
When in your motion you are hot and dry--
When it did taste the wormwood on the nipple
When it hoars ere it be spent.
When I, thy three-hours wife, have mangled it?
When I to sulphurous and tormenting flames
When it proved otherwise?
When King Cophetua loved the beggar-maid!
When our deep plots do pall: and that should teach us
When presently through all thy veins shall run
When Roscius was an actor in Rome,--
When second husband kisses me in bed.
When she saw Pyrrhus make malicious sport
When sorrows come, they come not single spies
When that her golden couplets are disclosed,
When the blood burns, how prodigal the soul
When the compulsive ardour gives the charge,
When the devout religion of mine eye
When theirs are dry, for Romeo's banishment.
When the sun sets, the air doth drizzle dew;
When thou didst bower the spirit of a fiend
When thou liest howling.
When we have shuffled off this mortal coil,
When well-apparell'd April on the heel
When we would bring him on to some confession
When yond same star that's westward from the pole
Where all the kindred of the Capulets lie.
Where and what time thou wilt perform the rite;
Where are the vile beginners of this fray?
Where, as they had deliver'd, both in time,
Where be these enemies? Capulet! Montague!
Where bloody Tybalt, yet but green in earth,
Where civil blood makes civil hands unclean.
Where every god did seem to set his seal,
wherefore I know not--lost all my mirth, forgone all
Where, for these many hundred years, the bones
where I am. Rosencrantz and Guildenstern hold their
Where I have learn'd me to repent the sin
Where I may read who pass'd that passing fair?
Wherein I'll catch the conscience of the king.
Wherein necessity, of matter beggar'd,
Wherein our Saviour's birth is celebrated,
Wherein the spirit held his wont to walk.
Wherein, they say, you shine: your sum of parts
Wherein we saw thee quietly inurn'd,
Where is my father, and my mother, nurse?
Where is my lady's lord, where's Romeo?
Where is my mother! why, she is within;
Where is my page? Go, villain, fetch a surgeon.
Where is she? and how doth she? and what says
Where is the county's page, that raised the watch?
Where is your mother?'
Where is your son?
Where it draws blood no cataplasm so rare,
Where joy most revels, grief doth most lament;
Where Juliet lives; and every cat and dog
Where late the diadem stood, and for a robe,
Where little fears grow great, great love grows there.
Where love is great, the littlest doubts are fear;
Where now it burns, Marcellus and myself,
Whereof he is the head. Then if he says he loves you,
Where on a sudden one hath wounded me,
Whereon his brains still beating puts him thus
Whereon old Norway, overcome with joy,
Whereon the numbers cannot try the cause,
Where serpents are; chain me with roaring bears;
Where shall we dine? O me! What fray was here?
Where should she be? How oddly thou repliest!
Where should we have our thanks?
Where's Romeo's man? what can he say in this?
Where's your father?
Where that same banish'd runagate doth live,
Where the devil should this Romeo be?
Where the infectious pestilence did reign,
Where thou shalt live, till we can find a time
Where thrift may follow fawning. Dost thou hear?
Whereto I have invited many a guest,
Where truth is hid, though it were hid indeed
Where, underneath the grove of sycamore
Where we shall find him most conveniently.
Where you may see the inmost part of you.
Whether aught, to us unknown, afflicts him thus,
Whether in sea or fire, in earth or air,
Whether love lead fortune, or else fortune love.
Whether 'tis nobler in the mind to suffer
whether you were sent for, or no?
Which are not sterling. Tender yourself more dearly;
Which are the children of an idle brain,
Which, as he breathed defiance to my ears,
Which, as her winks, and nods, and gestures
Which as they kiss consume: the sweetest honey
Which bewept to the grave did go
Which, but their children's end, nought could remove,
Which craves as desperate an execution.
Which done, she took the fruits of my advice;
Which, happily, foreknowing may avoid, O, speak!
Which have solicited. The rest is silence.
Which heavy sorrow makes them apt unto:
Which he stood seized of, to the conqueror:
Which I have told thee of my father's death:
which is a disgrace to them, if they bear it.
Which is as thin of substance as the air
Which is not tomb enough and continent
Which is the god of my idolatry,
Which is the mightier: in his lawless fit,
Which let thy wiseness fear: hold off thy hand.
Which, like a usurer, abound'st in all,
Which mannerly devotion shows in this;
Which may to you, perhaps, seem much unsinew'd,
Which might deprive your sovereignty of reason
Which modern lamentations might have moved?
Which now goes too free-footed.
Which now, like fruit unripe, sticks on the tree;
Which now to claim my vantage doth invite me.
Which oft the angry Mab with blisters plagues,
Which once untangled, much misfortune bodes:
Which on more view, of many mine being one
Which she hath praised him with above compare
Which should bedeck thy shape, thy love, thy wit:
Which ten times faster glide than the sun's beams,
Which the commission of thy years and art
Which the dark night hath so discovered.
Which thou wilt propagate, to have it prest
Which time she chanted snatches of old tunes;
Which, too much minded by herself alone,
Which too untimely here did scorn the earth.
Which to the high top-gallant of my joy
Which was declining on the milky head
Which was the model of that Danish seal;
Which we do tender, as we dearly grieve
Which, well thou know'st, is cross, and full of sin.
Which with sweet water nightly I will dew,
Which you, mistaking, offer up to joy.
which your modesties have not craft enough to colour:
Which you weep for.
Whiles, like a puff'd and reckless libertine,
While we were interchanging thrusts and blows,
Whilst rank corruption, mining all within,
Whipp'd and tormented and--God-den, good fellow.
Whips out his rapier, cries, 'A rat, a rat!'
White his shroud as the mountain snow,--
Whiter than new snow on a raven's back.
white wench's black eye; shot through the ear with a
Whither?
Who all as hot, turns deadly point to point,
Who calls me villain? breaks my pate across?
Who, dipping all his faults in their affection,
Who does it, then? His madness: if't be so,
Who even in pure and vestal modesty,
Who ever would have thought it? Romeo!
Who had but newly entertain'd revenge,
Who hath relieved you?
Who here hath lain these two days buried.
Who, impotent and bed-rid, scarcely hears
Who, in her duty and obedience, mark,
Who is already sick and pale with grief,
Who is't that calls? is it my lady mother?
Who is't that can inform me?
Who knocks so hard? whence come you? what's your will?
Whole misadventured piteous overthrows
wholesome answer, I will do your mother's
Who lets it hop a little from her hand,
Who like not in their judgment, but their eyes;
Whom I will trust as I will adders fang'd,
Who nothing hurt withal hiss'd him in scorn:
Who now the price of his dear blood doth owe?
Who, raging with thy tears, and they with them,
whore!' Why, is not this a lamentable thing,
Whose blood and judgment are so well commingled,
Whose house?
Whose image even but now appear'd to us,
Whose motive, in this case, should stir me most
Whose names are written there, and to them say,
Whose sale is present death in Mantua,
Whose spirit with divine ambition puff'd
Who set this ancient quarrel new abroach?
Whose violent property fordoes itself
Whose whisper o'er the world's diameter,
Whose wicked deed thy most ingenious sense
Whose worth, if praises may go back again,
Who this had seen, with tongue in venom steep'd,
Who was in life a foolish prating knave.
Why art thou yet so fair? shall I believe
Why day is day, night night, and time is time,
Why does the drum come hither?
Why dost thou stay?
Why follow'd not, when she said 'Tybalt's dead,'
Why, how now, kinsman! wherefore storm you so?
Why, I am glad on't; this is well: stand up:
Why I descend into this bed of death,
Why, is not this better now than groaning for love?
Why, lamb! why, lady! fie, you slug-a-bed!
Why, love, I say! madam! sweet-heart! why, bride!
Why, may one ask?
Why rail'st thou on thy birth, the heaven, and earth?
Why, Romeo, art thou mad?
Why seems it so particular with thee?
Why should we in our peevish opposition
Why should you fall into so deep an O?
why 'silver sound'? why 'music with her silver
Why such impress of shipwrights, whose sore task
Why, such is love's transgression.
Why the man dies. I humbly thank you, sir.
Why then, belike, he likes it not, perdy.
Why, then is my pump well flowered.
Why, then, O brawling love! O loving hate!
Why this same strict and most observant watch
Why thou art thus incensed. Let him go, Gertrude.
Why thy canonized bones, hearsed in death,
Why to a public count I might not go,
Why, uncle, 'tis a shame.
Why, what an ass am I! This is most brave,
Why, what is Tybalt?
Why yet I live to say 'This thing's to do;'
Why you proceeded not against these feats,
widow of Vitravio; Signior Placentio and his lovely
Wife, go you to her ere you go to bed;
wilfully seeks her own salvation?
Will be some danger: which for to prevent,
Will bring him to his wonted way again,
will give me occasion.
Will I set up my everlasting rest,
Will ne'er wear out the everlasting flint:
Will not debate the question of this straw:
Will nothing stick our person to arraign
Will not peruse the foils; so that, with ease,
Will now deny to dance? she that makes dainty,
Will sate itself in a celestial bed,
Will so bestow ourselves that, seeing, unseen,
Will they not hear? What, ho! you men, you beasts,
Will want true colour; tears perchance for blood.
Will watch thy waking, and that very night
Will you be ready? do you like this haste?
Will you be ruled by me?
Will you do this, keep close within your chamber.
Will you go to them? I will bring you thither.
Will you two help to hasten them?
wilt quarrel with a man for cracking nuts, having no
Wilt thou be gone? it is not yet near day:
Wilt thou not, Jule?' and, by my holidame,
Wilt thou not, Jule?' it stinted and said 'Ay.'
Wilt thou provoke me? then have at thee, boy!
wilt tutor me from quarrelling!
Winner and loser?
wisely, wisely.
With a bare bodkin? who would fardels bear,
With all his crimes broad blown, as flush as May;
With all my imperfections on my head:
With all my love I do commend me to you:
With all the admired beauties of Verona:
With all the strength and armour of the mind,
With almost all the holy vows of heaven.
With an attent ear, till I may deliver,
With an auspicious and a dropping eye,
With an entreaty, herein further shown,
with an iron wit, and put up my iron dagger. Answer
With arms encumber'd thus, or this headshake,
with as much speed as thou wouldst fly death. I
With baleful weeds and precious-juiced flowers.
With bisson rheum; a clout upon that head
With blood of fathers, mothers, daughters, sons,
With blood removed but little from her own?
With Cupid's arrow; she hath Dian's wit;
withers are unwrung.
With eyes like carbuncles, the hellish Pyrrhus
With fiery quickness: therefore prepare thyself;
With forms to his conceit? and all for nothing!
With gentle breath, calm look, knees humbly bow'd,
with golden fire, why, it appears no other thing to
With Hecate's ban thrice blasted, thrice infected,
With heraldry more dismal; head to foot
with her, truly it were an ill thing to be offered
with honesty?
With, ho! such bugs and goblins in my life,
Within his truncheon's length; whilst they, distilled
With instruments upon them, fit to open
Within the book and volume of my brain,
Within the centre.
Within the infant rind of this small flower
Within this hour my man shall be with thee
Within three hours will fair Juliet wake:
Within thy help and holy physic lies:
With juice of cursed hebenon in a vial,
With less remorse than Pyrrhus' bleeding sword
With love's light wings did I o'er-perch these walls;
With martial stalk hath he gone by our watch.
With mirth in funeral and with dirge in marriage,
With more of thine: this love that thou hast shown
With most miraculous organ. I'll have these players
with my disposition that this goodly frame, the
With nimble soles: I have a soul of lead
With open outcry toward our monument.
Without a sudden calm, will overset
Without debatement further, more or less,
Without his roe, like a dried herring: flesh, flesh,
Without more motive, into every brain
Without that title. Romeo, doff thy name,
Without the sensible and true avouch
Without the which we are pictures, or mere beasts:
With pestilent speeches of his father's death;
With piercing steel at bold Mercutio's breast,
With purple fountains issuing from your veins,
With reeky shanks and yellow chapless skulls;
With repetition of my Romeo's name.
With Romeo, till I behold him--dead--
With Rosaline, my ghostly father? no;
with some two or three Mutes, comes in again,
With sore distraction. What I have done,
With speedy help doth lend redress.'
With such dexterity to incestuous sheets!
With tears augmenting the fresh morning dew.
With tender Juliet match'd, is now not fair.
With the brave beast: so far he topp'd my thought,
With this affair along. For all, our thanks.
With this contagion, that, if I gall him slightly,
With this night's revels and expire the term
With this regard their currents turn awry,
With this slave's offal: bloody, bawdy villain!
With thoughts beyond the reaches of our souls?
With thy black mantle; till strange love, grown bold,
With tristful visage, as against the doom,
With true-love showers.
With turbulent and dangerous lunacy?
With twenty hundred thousand times more joy
With Tybalt's slander,--Tybalt, that an hour
with us to the king.
With us to watch the minutes of this night;
With variable objects shall expel
With which she follow'd my poor father's body,
With windlasses and with assays of bias,
With witchcraft of his wit, with traitorous gifts,--
With wondrous potency. Once more, good night:
With worms that are thy chamber-maids; O, here
Witness this army of such mass and charge
wit, together with most weak hams: all which, sir,
Women may fall, when there's no strength in men.
Woo't drink up eisel? eat a crocodile?
Woo't weep? woo't fight? woo't fast? woo't tear thyself?
Words without thoughts never to heaven go.
word to the action; with this special o'erstep not
world! the paragon of animals! And yet, to me,
worm is your only emperor for diet: we fat all
worn out thy pump, that when the single sole of it
Worse than the mutines in the bilboes. Rashly,
would come to immediate trial, if your lordship
Would from a paddock, from a bat, a gib,
Would gambol from. Mother, for love of grace,
Would harrow up thy soul, freeze thy young blood,
Would have made milch the burning eyes of heaven,
Would have mourn'd longer--married with my uncle,
Would have reverted to my bow again,
Would I had met my dearest foe in heaven
Would I were sleep and peace, so sweet to rest!
Would, like the spring that turneth wood to stone,
Would make them capable. Do not look upon me;
Would none but I might venge my cousin's death!
Would not this, sir, and a forest of feathers-- if
Would quake to look on. Soft! now to my mother.
Would step from this to this? Sense, sure, you have,
Wouldst thou not stir in this. Now, Hamlet, hear:
Wouldst thou withdraw it? for what purpose, love?
Would through the airy region stream so bright
would vouchsafe the answer.
wrinkled, their eyes purging thick amber and
writ, and can never find what names the writing
written, that the shoemaker should meddle with his
yard, and the tailor with his last, the fisher with
Yea, curb and woo for leave to do him good.
Yea, from the table of my memory
Yea, is the worst well? very well took, i' faith;
Yea, noise? then I'll be brief. O happy dagger!
Yea, this solidity and compound mass,
Yes, better, sir.
Yes, 'faith heartily.
yesty collection, which carries them through and
Yet 'banished'? Hang up philosophy!
Yet have I something in me dangerous,
Yet here she is allow'd her virgin crants,
Yet I should kill thee with much cherishing.
Yet let me weep for such a feeling loss.
Yet most suspected, as the time and place
Yet must not we put the strong law on him:
Yet nature's tears are reason's merriment.
Yet needful too; for youth no less becomes
Yet now, I must confess, that duty done,
Yet put it out, for I would not be seen.
Yet so far hath discretion fought with nature
Yet tell me not, for I have heard it all.
Yet the unshaped use of it doth move
Yet what can it wn one can not repent?
yield them,
Yon light is not day-light, I know it, I:
you.
you any further trade with us?
You are a lover; borrow Cupid's wings,
You are a saucy boy: is't so, indeed?
you are asked this question next, say 'a
You are the most immediate to our throne;
You are the queen, your husband's brother's wife;
You are to blame, my lord, to rate her so.
You are welcome, gentlemen! come, musicians, play.
You are welcome, masters; welcome, all. I am glad
You, as your business and desire shall point you;
You cannot call it love; for at your age
You cannot speak of reason to the Dane,
You Capulet; shall go along with me:
you could go backward.
you deny your griefs to your friend.
You do not understand yourself so clearly
You do remember all the circumstance?
You from the Polack wars, and you from England,
You go not till I set you up a glass
You, good Cornelius, and you, Voltimand,
You have been talk'd of since your travel much,
you have found him than he was when you sought him:
You heavenly guards! What would your gracious figure?
You kiss by the book.
You know the wager?
You laying these slight sullies on my son,
You lie.
You'll make a mutiny among my guests!
You'll not endure him! God shall mend my soul!
You mainly were stirr'd up.
you make it speak. 'Sblood, do you think I am
You must contrary me! marry, 'tis time.
You must not put another scandal on him,
You must not take for fire. From this time
You must sing a-down a-down,
You must translate: 'tis fit we understand them.
You need not tell us what Lord Hamlet said;
Young Adam Cupid, he that shot so trim,
Younger than she are happy mothers made.
Young men will do't, if they come to't;
Young Romeo is it?
Young son, it argues a distemper'd head
You promised me to wed.
Your bait of falsehood takes this carp of truth:
Your bedded hair, like life in excrements,
Your better wisdoms, which have freely gone
your clowns speak no more than is set down for them;
Your first is dead; or 'twere as good he were,
Your grace hath laid the odds o' the weaker side.
Your high displeasure: all this uttered
your ignorance. Go to, I'll no more on't; it hath
your kingdom. To-morrow shall I beg leave to see
your kingly eyes: when I shall, first asking your
Your lady's love against some other maid
Your leave and favour to return to France;
your lingers and thumb, give it breath with your
Your lives shall pay the forfeit of the peace.
Your loneliness. We are oft to blame in this,--
Your looks are pale and wild, and do import
your own inclining? Is it a free visitation? Come,
Your part in her you could not keep from death,
Your party in converse, him you would sound,
your pate. I will carry no crotchets: I'll re you,
Your plaintain-leaf is excellent for that.
yourself. But indeed, if you find him not within
yourself, sir, should be old as I am, if like a crab
yours: for my part, I do not lie in't, and yet it is mine.
Your skill shall, like a star i' the darkest night,
Your sudden coming o'er, to play with him.
Your tributary drops belong to woe,
Your visitation shall receive such thanks
Your wisdom best shall think.
Your worship in that sense may call him 'man.'
you seem to say so.
You shall find me apt enough to that, sir, an you
you sing prick-song, keeps time, distance, and
you, sir; it comes from the ambassador that was
You tallow-face!
You that look pale and tremble at this chance,
Youth to itself rebels, though none else near.
You told us of some suit; what is't, Laertes?
You, to remove that siege of grief from her,
you, trippingly on the tongue: but if you mouth it,
you: we coted them on the way; and hither are they
you:--why do you go about to recover the wind of me,
You will do't, sir, really.
You will not, then?
You will set cock-a-hoop! you'll be the man!
